#*************************************************************************
# Copyright (c) 2002 The University of Chicago, as Operator of Argonne
#     National Laboratory.
# Copyright (c) 2002 The Regents of the University of California, as
#     Operator of Los Alamos National Laboratory.
# EPICS BASE is distributed subject to a Software License Agreement found
# in file LICENSE that is included with this distribution.
#*************************************************************************

=title Long Output Record (longout)

The normal use for the long output or "longout" record type is to store long
integer values of up to 32 bits and write them to hardware devices. The C<<<
Soft Channel >>> device support layer can also be used to write values to
other records via database or channel access links. The OUT field determines how
the record is used. The record supports alarm limits and graphics and control
limits.

=recordtype longout

=cut

recordtype(longout) {

=head2 Parameter Fields

The fields in this record fall into the following categories:

=over

=item * L<Scan Parameters>

=item * L<Desired Output Parameters>

=item * L<Write Parameters>

=item * L<Operator Display Parameters>

=item * L<Alarm Parameters>

=item * L<Monitor Parameters>

=item * L<Simulation Mode Parameters>

=back

=head3 Scan Parameters

The longout record has the standard fields for specifying under what
circumstances it will be processed. These fields are listed in L<Scan Fields>.
In addition, L<Scanning Specification> explains how these fields are used. Note
that I/O event scanning is only supported for those card types that
interrupt.

=head3 Desired Output Parameters

The record must specify where the desired output originates, i.e., the 32 bit
integer value it is to write. The output mode select (OMSL) field determines
whether the output originates from another record or from database access. When
set to C<<< closed_loop >>>, the desired output is retrieved from the link
specified in the desired output (DOL) field (which can specify either a database
or channel access link) and placed into the VAL field. When set to C<<<
supervisory >>>, the desired output can be written into the VAL field via dpPuts
at run-time.

A third type of value for the DOL field is a constant in which case, when the
record is initialized, the VAL field will be initialized with this constant
value.

The VAL field's value will be clipped within limits specified in the fields DRVH
and DRVL if these have been configured by the database designer:

  DRVL <= VAL <= DRVH

Note: These limits are only enforced as long as DRVH E<gt> DRVL. If they are not
set or DRVH E<lt>= DRVL they will not be used.

=fields DOL, OMSL, DRVH, DRVL, VAL

=head3 Write Parameters

The OUT link field determines where the record is to send its output. For
records that write values to hardware devices, the OUT output link field must
specify the address of the I/O card, and the DTYP field must specify the
name of the corresponding device support module.

For soft records, the OUT output link can be a constant, a database link, or a
channel access link. If the link is a constant, the result is no output. The
DTYP field must then specify the C<<< Soft Channel >>> device support routine.

See L<Address Specification> for information on the format of hardware addresses
and database links.

=fields OUT, DTYP

=cut

	include "dbCommon.dbd"
	field(VAL,DBF_LONG) {
		prompt("Desired Output")
		promptgroup("50 - Output")
		asl(ASL0)
		pp(TRUE)
	}
	field(OUT,DBF_OUTLINK) {
		prompt("Output Specification")
		promptgroup("50 - Output")
		interest(1)
	}
	field(DOL,DBF_INLINK) {
		prompt("Desired Output Loc")
		promptgroup("40 - Input")
		interest(1)
	}
	field(OMSL,DBF_MENU) {
		prompt("Output Mode Select")
		promptgroup("50 - Output")
		interest(1)
		menu(menuOmsl)
	}

=head3 Operator Display Parameters

These parameters are used to present meaningful data to the operator. They
display the value and other parameters of the long output either textually or
graphically.

EGU is a string of up to 16 characters describing the units that the long output
measures. It is retrieved by the C<<< get_units >>> record support routine.

The HOPR and LOPR fields set the upper and lower display limits for the VAL,
HIHI, HIGH, LOW, and LOLO fields. Both the C<<< get_graphic_double >>> and C<<<
get_control_double >>> record support routines retrieve these fields.

See L<Fields Common to All Record Types> for more on the record name (NAME) and
description (DESC) fields.

=fields EGU, HOPR, LOPR, NAME, DESC

=cut

	field(EGU,DBF_STRING) {
		prompt("Engineering Units")
		promptgroup("80 - Display")
		interest(1)
		size(16)
		prop(YES)
	}
	field(DRVH,DBF_LONG) {
		prompt("Drive High Limit")
		promptgroup("30 - Action")
		pp(TRUE)
		interest(1)
		prop(YES)
	}
	field(DRVL,DBF_LONG) {
		prompt("Drive Low Limit")
		promptgroup("30 - Action")
		pp(TRUE)
		interest(1)
		prop(YES)
	}
	field(HOPR,DBF_LONG) {
		prompt("High Operating Range")
		promptgroup("80 - Display")
		interest(1)
		prop(YES)
	}
	field(LOPR,DBF_LONG) {
		prompt("Low Operating Range")
		promptgroup("80 - Display")
		interest(1)
		prop(YES)
	}

=head3 Alarm Parameters

The possible alarm conditions for long inputs are the SCAN, READ, INVALID, and
limit alarms. The SCAN and READ alarms are not configurable by the user because
their severity is always MAJOR. The INVALID alarm is called by the record
support routine when the record or device support routines cannot write the
record's output. The IVOA field specifies the action to take in this case.

The limit alarms are configured by the user in the HIHI, LOLO, HIGH, and LOW
fields using floating-point values. For each of these fields, there is a
corresponding severity field which can be either NO_ALARM, MINOR, or MAJOR. The
HYST field contains the alarm deadband around each limit alarm.

See the See L<Alarm Specification> for a complete explanation of alarms and
these fields. For an explanation of the IVOA and IVOV fields, see L<Output
Records>. L<Alarm Fields> lists other fields related to a alarms that are common
to all record types.

=fields HIHI, HIGH, LOW, LOLO, HHSV, HSV, LSV, LLSV, HYST, IVOA, IVOV

=cut

	field(HIHI,DBF_LONG) {
		prompt("Hihi Alarm Limit")
		promptgroup("70 - Alarm")
		pp(TRUE)
		interest(1)
		prop(YES)
	}
	field(LOLO,DBF_LONG) {
		prompt("Lolo Alarm Limit")
		promptgroup("70 - Alarm")
		pp(TRUE)
		interest(1)
		prop(YES)
	}
	field(HIGH,DBF_LONG) {
		prompt("High Alarm Limit")
		promptgroup("70 - Alarm")
		pp(TRUE)
		interest(1)
		prop(YES)
	}
	field(LOW,DBF_LONG) {
		prompt("Low Alarm Limit")
		promptgroup("70 - Alarm")
		pp(TRUE)
		interest(1)
		prop(YES)
	}
	field(HHSV,DBF_MENU) {
		prompt("Hihi Severity")
		promptgroup("70 - Alarm")
		pp(TRUE)
		interest(1)
		menu(menuAlarmSevr)
	}
	field(LLSV,DBF_MENU) {
		prompt("Lolo Severity")
		promptgroup("70 - Alarm")
		pp(TRUE)
		interest(1)
		menu(menuAlarmSevr)
	}
	field(HSV,DBF_MENU) {
		prompt("High Severity")
		promptgroup("70 - Alarm")
		pp(TRUE)
		interest(1)
		menu(menuAlarmSevr)
	}
	field(LSV,DBF_MENU) {
		prompt("Low Severity")
		promptgroup("70 - Alarm")
		pp(TRUE)
		interest(1)
		menu(menuAlarmSevr)
	}
	field(HYST,DBF_LONG) {
		prompt("Alarm Deadband")
		promptgroup("70 - Alarm")
		interest(1)
	}

=head3 Monitor Parameters

These parameters are used to determine when to send monitors placed on the value
field. The monitors are sent when the value field exceeds the last monitored
field by the appropriate delta. If these fields have a value of zero, everytime
the value changes, a monitor will be triggered; if they have a value of -1,
everytime the record is scanned, monitors are triggered. The ADEL field is the
delta for archive monitors, and the MDEL field is the delta for all other types
of monitors. See L<Monitor Specification> for a complete explanation of
monitors.

=fields ADEL, MDEL

=cut

	field(ADEL,DBF_LONG) {
		prompt("Archive Deadband")
		promptgroup("80 - Display")
		interest(1)
	}
	field(MDEL,DBF_LONG) {
		prompt("Monitor Deadband")
		promptgroup("80 - Display")
		interest(1)
	}
	field(LALM,DBF_LONG) {
		prompt("Last Value Alarmed")
		special(SPC_NOMOD)
		interest(3)
	}
	field(ALST,DBF_LONG) {
		prompt("Last Value Archived")
		special(SPC_NOMOD)
		interest(3)
	}
	field(MLST,DBF_LONG) {
		prompt("Last Val Monitored")
		special(SPC_NOMOD)
		interest(3)
	}

=head3 Run-time and Simulation Mode Parameters

The LALM, MLST, and ALST fields are used to implement the hysteresis factors for
monitor callbacks. Only if the difference between these fields and the
corresponding value field is greater than the appropriate delta (MDEL, ADEL,
HYST)--only then are monitors triggered. For instance, only if the difference
between VAL and MLST is greater than MDEL are the monitors triggered for VAL.

=fields LALM, ALST, MLST

The following fields are used to operate the long output in the simulation mode.
See L<Fields Common to Many Record Types> for more information on the simulation
mode fields

=fields SIOL, SIML, SIMM, SIMS

=cut

	field(SIOL,DBF_OUTLINK) {
		prompt("Sim Output Specifctn")
		promptgroup("90 - Simulate")
		interest(1)
	}
	field(SIML,DBF_INLINK) {
		prompt("Sim Mode Location")
		promptgroup("90 - Simulate")
		interest(1)
	}
	field(SIMM,DBF_MENU) {
		prompt("Simulation Mode")
		special(SPC_MOD)
		interest(1)
		menu(menuYesNo)
	}
	field(SIMS,DBF_MENU) {
		prompt("Sim mode Alarm Svrty")
		promptgroup("90 - Simulate")
		interest(2)
		menu(menuAlarmSevr)
	}
	field(OLDSIMM,DBF_MENU) {
		prompt("Prev. Simulation Mode")
		special(SPC_NOMOD)
		interest(4)
		menu(menuSimm)
	}
	field(SSCN,DBF_MENU) {
		prompt("Sim. Mode Scan")
		promptgroup("90 - Simulate")
		interest(1)
		menu(menuScan)
		initial("65535")
	}
	field(SDLY,DBF_DOUBLE) {
		prompt("Sim. Mode Async Delay")
		promptgroup("90 - Simulate")
		interest(2)
		initial("-1.0")
	}
	%#include "callback.h"
	field(SIMPVT,DBF_NOACCESS) {
		prompt("Sim. Mode Private")
		special(SPC_NOMOD)
		interest(4)
		extra("epicsCallback            *simpvt")
	}
	field(IVOA,DBF_MENU) {
		prompt("INVALID output action")
		promptgroup("50 - Output")
		interest(2)
		menu(menuIvoa)
	}
	field(IVOV,DBF_LONG) {
		prompt("INVALID output value")
		promptgroup("50 - Output")
		interest(2)
	}


=begin html

<br><hr><br>

=end html

=head2 Record Support

=head3 Record Support Routines

=head4 init_record

This routine initializes SIMM if SIML is a constant or creates a channel access
link if SIML is PV_LINK. If SIOL is PV_LINK a channel access link is created.

This routine next checks to see that device support is available. The routine
next checks to see if the device support write routine is defined.

If either device support or the device support write routine does not exist, an
error message is issued and processing is terminated.

If DOL is a constant, then VAL is initialized to its value and UDF is set to
FALSE. If DOL type is a PV_LINK then dbCaAddInlink is called to create a channel
access link.

If device support includes C<init_record()>, it is called.

=head4 process

See next section.

=head4 get_units

Retrieves EGU.

=head4 get_graphic_double

Sets the upper display and lower display limits for a field. If the field is
VAL, HIHI, HIGH, LOW, or LOLO, the limits are set to HOPR and LOPR, else if the
field has upper and lower limits defined they will be used, else the upper and
lower maximum values for the field type will be used.

=head4 get_control_double

Sets the upper control and the lower control limits for a field. If the field is
VAL, HIHI, HIGH, LOW, or LOLO, the limits are set to HOPR and LOPR, else if the
field has upper and lower limits defined they will be used, else the upper and
lower maximum values for the field type will be used.

=head4 get_alarm_double

Sets the following values:

   upper_alarm_limit = HIHI
   upper_warning_limit = HIGH
   lower_warning_limit = LOW
   lower_alarm_limit = LOLO


=head3 Record Processing

Routine process implements the following algorithm:

=over

=item 1.

Check to see that the appropriate device support module exists. If it doesn't,
an error message is issued and processing is terminated with the PACT field
still set to TRUE. This ensures that processes will no longer be called for this
record. Thus error storms will not occur.

=item 2.

If PACT is FALSE and OMSL is CLOSED_LOOP recGblGetLinkValue is called to read
the current value of VAL. See L<Output Records> for more information. If the
return status of recGblGetLinkValue is zero then UDF is set to FALSE.

=item 3.

Check alarms. This routine checks to see if the new VAL causes the alarm status
and severity to change. If so, NSEV, NSTA and LALM are set. It also honors the
alarm hysteresis factor (HYST). Thus the value must change by more than HYST
before the alarm status and severity is lowered.

=item 4.

Check severity and write the new value. See L<Invalid Alarm Output Action> for
information on how INVALID alarms affect output records.

=item 5.

If PACT has been changed to TRUE, the device support write output routine has
started but has not completed writing the new value. In this case, the
processing routine merely returns, leaving PACT TRUE.

=item 6.

Check to see if monitors should be invoked:

=over

=item *

Alarm monitors are invoked if the alarm status or severity has changed.

=item *

Archive and value change monitors are invoked if ADEL and MDEL conditions are
met.

=item *

NSEV and NSTA are reset to 0.

=back

=item 7.

Scan forward link if necessary, set PACT FALSE, and return.

=back

=begin html

<br><hr><br>

=end html

=head2 Device Support

=head3 Fields Of Interest To Device Support

Each long output record must have an associated set of device support routines.
The primary responsibility of the device support routines is to output a new
value whenever write_longout is called. The device support routines are
primarily interested in the following fields:

=fields PACT, DPVT, NSEV, NSTA, OUT

=head3 Device Support Routines

Device support consists of the following routines:

=head4 long report(int level)

This optional routine is called by the IOC command C<dbior> and is passed the
report level that was requested by the user.
It should print a report on the state of the device support to stdout.
The C<level> parameter may be used to output increasingly more detailed
information at higher levels, or to select different types of information with
different levels.
Level zero should print no more than a small summary.

=head4 long init(int after)

This optional routine is called twice at IOC initialization time.
The first call happens before any of the C<init_record()> calls are made, with
the integer parameter C<after> set to 0.
The second call happens after all of the C<init_record()> calls have been made,
with C<after> set to 1.

=head4 init_record

  init_record(precord)

This routine is optional. If provided, it is called by the record support
C<init_record()> routine.

=head4 get_ioint_info

  get_ioint_info(int cmd,struct dbCommon *precord,IOSCANPVT *ppvt)

This routine is called by the ioEventScan system each time the record is added
or deleted from an I/O event scan list. cmd has the value (0,1) if the
record is being (added to, deleted from) an I/O event list. It must be
provided for any device type that can use the ioEvent scanner.

=head4 write_longout

  write_longout(precord)

This routine must output a new value. It returns the following values:

=over

=item *

0: Success.

=item *

Other: Error.

=back

=head3 Device Support For Soft Records

The C<<< Soft Channel >>> module writes the current value of VAL.

If the OUT link type is PV_LINK, then dbCaAddInlink is called by
C<init_record()>.

write_longout calls recGblPutLinkValue to write the current value of VAL.

See L<Soft Output> for a further explanation.

=cut

} #end of the DBD file
