#*************************************************************************
# Copyright (c) 2012 UChicago Argonne LLC, as Operator of Argonne
#     National Laboratory.
# Copyright (c) 2002 The Regents of the University of California, as
#     Operator of Los Alamos National Laboratory.
# EPICS BASE is distributed subject to a Software License Agreement found
# in file LICENSE that is included with this distribution.
#*************************************************************************

=title Sequence Record (seq)

The Sequence record is used to trigger the processing of up to ten other records
and send values to those records. It is similar to the fanout record, except
that it will fetch an input value and write an output value instead of simply
processing a collection of forward links. It can also specify one of several
selection algorithms that determine which values to write. It has no associated
device support.

=recordtype seq

=cut

menu(seqSELM) {
    choice(seqSELM_All,"All")
    choice(seqSELM_Specified,"Specified")
    choice(seqSELM_Mask,"Mask")
}

recordtype(seq) {

=head2 Parameter Fields

The record-specific fields are described below, grouped by functionality.

=head3 Scan Parameters

The sequence record has the standard fields for specifying under what
circumstances it will be processed. These fields are listed in L<Scan Fields>.
In addition, L<Scanning Specification> explains how these fields are used.

=head3 Desired Output Parameters

These fields determine where the record retrieves the values it is to write to
other records. All of these values are not necessarily used, depending on the
selection algorithm.

The sequence record can retrieve up to 16 values from 16 locations. The user
specifies the locations in the Desired Output Link fields (DOL0-DOLF), which can
be either constants, database links, or channel access links. If a Desired
Output Link is a constant, the corresponding value field for that link is
initialized to the constant value and ''cannot'' be changed via dbputs.
Otherwise, if the Desired Output Link is a database or channel access link, a
value is fetched from the link each time the record is processed (provided that
the output link is part of the record's selection algorithm). See L<Address
Specification> for information on how to specify database links.

The value fetched from the Desired Output Links are stored in the corresponding
Desired Output Value fields (DO0-DOF). These fields can be initialized to a
constant value, but they cannot be changed via dbPuts.

=head4 Desired Output Link Fields

=fields DOL0, DOL1, DOL2, DOL3, DOL4, DOL5, DOL6, DOL7, DOL8, DOL9, DOLA, DOLB, DOLC, DOLD, DOLE, DOLF

=head4 Desired Output Value Fields

=fields DO0, DO1, DO2, DO3, DO4, DO5, DO6, DO7, DO8, DO9, DOA, DOB, DOC, DOD, DOE, DOF

=head3 Output Parameters

When the record is processed, the desired output values are retrieved for the
links in the record's selection algorithm and are written to the corresponding
output link (LNK0-LNKF). These output links can be database links or channel
access links; they cannot be device addresses. There are sixteen output links, one
for each desired output link. Only those that are defined are used.

=fields LNK0, LNK1, LNK2, LNK3, LNK4, LNK5, LNK6, LNK7, LNK8, LNK9, LNKA, LNKB, LNKC, LNKD, LNKE, LNKF

=head3 Selection Algorithm Parameters

When the sequence record is processed, it uses a selection algorithm similar to
that of the selection record to decide which links to process.The select
mechanism field (SELM) has three algorithms to choose from: C<<< All >>>,
C<<<Specified >>> or C<<< Mask >>>.

=head4 Record fields related to the Selection Algorithm

=fields SELM, SELN, SELL, SHFT, OFFS

=head4 Fields Description

B<SELM - Selection Mode>

=menu seqSELM

See L<Selection Algorithms Description> below;

B<SELL - Link Selection Location>

This field can be initialized as a CONSTANT or as a LINK to any other record. SELN will fetch its value from this field when the seq record is processed.
Thus, when using I<Mask> or I<Specified> modes, the links that seq will process can be dinamically changed by the record pointed by SELL.

B<SELN - Link Selection>

When B<C<SELM = Specified>> this is the index number of the link that will be processed, used in combination with the C<OFFS> field:

  SELN = SELN + OFFS


I<(By default, the OFFS is initalized to ZERO)>

When B<C<SELM = Mask>> this field is the bitmask that will be used to determine which links will be processed by the seq record,
in combination with the C<SHFT> field:

  if (SHFT >= 0)
    SELN = SELN << -SHFT
  else
    SELN = SELN >> SHFT

I<(By default, the SHFT is initalized to -1)>

=head4 B<Note about SHFT and OFFS fields>

The first versions of seq record had DO, DOL, LNK and DLY fields starting with index ONE (DO1, DOL1, LNK1 and DLY1).
New version of the seq record now supports 16 links, starting by index ZERO (DO0, DOL0, LNK0 and DLY0). The SHFT and OFFS fields
were introduced to keep compatibility of old databases that used seq record with its links indexed from one onwards.

B<If one wants to use DO0, DOL0, LNK0, DLY0 fields when SELM = Mask, SHFT field must be set to ZERO>

=head4 Selection Algorithms Description

B<All>

The C<<< All >>> algorithm causes the record to process each input and output
link each time the record is processed, in order from 0 to 15. So when SELM is
C<<< All >>>, the desired output value from DOL0 will fetched and sent to LNK0,
then the desired output value from DOL1 will be fetched and sent to the location
in LNK1, and so on until the last input and output link DOF and LNKF. (Note that
undefined links are not used.) If DOLI<x> is a constant, the current value
field is simply used and the desired output link is ignored. The SELN field is
not used when C<<< All >>> is the algorithm.

B<Specified>

When the C<<< Specified >>> algorithm is chosen, each time the record is
processed it gets the integer value in the Link Selection (SELN) field and uses
that as the index of the link to process. For instance, if SELN is 4, the
desired output value from DO4 will be retrieved and sent to LNK4. If DOLI<x> is
a constant, DOI<x> is simply used without the value being fetched from the
input link.

B<Mask>

When C<<< Mask >>> is chosen, the record uses the individual bits of the SELN
field to determine the links to process. When bit 0 of SELN is set, the value
from DO0 will be written to the location in LNK0; when bit 1 is set, the valud
from DO1 will be written to the location in LNK1 etc. Thus for example if SELN
is 3, the record will retrieve the values from DO0 and DO1 and write them to the
locations in LNK0 and LNK1, respectively. If SELN is 63, DO0...DO5 will be
written to LNK0...LNK5.


=head3 Delay Parameters

The delay parameters consist of 16 fields, one for each I/O link discussed
above. These fields can be configured to cause the record to delay processing
the link. For instance, if the user gives the DLY1 field a value of 3.0, each
time the record is processed at run-time, the record will delay processing the
DOL1, DOV1, and LNK1 fields for three seconds. That is, the desired output value
will not be fetched and written to the output link until three seconds have
lapsed.

=fields DLY0, DLY1, DLY2, DLY3, DLY4, DLY5, DLY6, DLY7, DLY8, DLY9, DLYA, DLYB, DLYC, DLYD, DLYE, DLYF

=head3 Operator Display Parameters

These parameters are used to present meaningful data to the operator. The
Precision field (PREC) determines the decimal precision for the VAL field when
it is displayed. It is used when the C<<< get_precision >>> record routine is
called.

See L<Fields Common to All Record Types> for more on the record name (NAME) and
description (DESC) fields.

=fields PREC, NAME, DESC

=head3 Alarm Parameters

The sequence record has the alarm parameters common to all record types.
L<Alarm Fields> lists other fields related to a alarms that are common to all
record types.

=head2 Record Support

=head3 Record Processing

Routine process implements the following algorithm:

=over

=item 1.

First, PACT is set to TRUE, and the link selection is fetched. Depending on the
selection mechanism, the link selection output links are processed in order from
LNK0 to LNKF. When LNKI<x> is processed, the corresponding DLYI<x> value is
used to generate a delay via watchdog timer.

=item 2.

After DLYI<x> seconds have expired, the input value is fetched from DOI<x> (if
DOLI<x> is constant) or DOLI<x> (if DOLI<x> is a database link or channel
access link) and written to LNKI<x>.

=item 3.

When all links are completed, an asynchronous completion call back to dbProcess
is made (see the Application Developer's Guide for more information on
asynchronous processing.)

=item 4.

Then UDF is set to FALSE.

=item 5.

Monitors are checked.

=item 6.

The forward link is scanned, PACT is set FALSE, and the process routine returns.

=back

For the delay mechanism to operate properly, the record is processed
asynchronously. The only time the record will not be processed asynchronously is
when there are no non-NULL output links selected (i.e. when it has nothing to
do.) The processing of the links is done via callback tasks at the priority set
in the PRIO field in dbCommon (see the Application Developer's Guide for more
information on call

=cut

    include "dbCommon.dbd"
    field(VAL,DBF_LONG) {
        prompt("Used to trigger")
        asl(ASL0)
        pp(TRUE)
    }
    field(SELM,DBF_MENU) {
        prompt("Select Mechanism")
        promptgroup("30 - Action")
        interest(1)
        menu(seqSELM)
    }
    field(SELN,DBF_USHORT) {
        prompt("Link Selection")
        interest(1)
        initial("1")
    }
    field(SELL,DBF_INLINK) {
        prompt("Link Selection Loc")
        promptgroup("30 - Action")
        interest(1)
    }
    field(OFFS,DBF_SHORT) {
        prompt("Offset for Specified")
        promptgroup("30 - Action")
        interest(1)
        initial("0")
    }
    field(SHFT,DBF_SHORT) {
        prompt("Shift for Mask mode")
        promptgroup("30 - Action")
        interest(1)
        initial("-1")
    }
    field(OLDN,DBF_USHORT) {
        prompt("Old Selection")
        interest(4)
    }
    field(PREC,DBF_SHORT) {
        prompt("Display Precision")
        promptgroup("80 - Display")
        interest(1)
    }
    field(DLY0,DBF_DOUBLE) {
        prompt("Delay 0")
        promptgroup("41 - Link 0-7")
        interest(1)
    }
    field(DOL0,DBF_INLINK) {
        prompt("Input link 0")
        promptgroup("41 - Link 0-7")
        interest(1)
    }
    field(DO0,DBF_DOUBLE) {
        prompt("Value 0")
        interest(1)
    }
    field(LNK0,DBF_OUTLINK) {
        prompt("Output Link 0")
        promptgroup("41 - Link 0-7")
        interest(1)
    }
    field(DLY1,DBF_DOUBLE) {
        prompt("Delay 1")
        promptgroup("41 - Link 0-7")
        interest(1)
    }
    field(DOL1,DBF_INLINK) {
        prompt("Input link1")
        promptgroup("41 - Link 0-7")
        interest(1)
    }
    field(DO1,DBF_DOUBLE) {
        prompt("Value 1")
        interest(1)
    }
    field(LNK1,DBF_OUTLINK) {
        prompt("Output Link 1")
        promptgroup("41 - Link 0-7")
        interest(1)
    }
    field(DLY2,DBF_DOUBLE) {
        prompt("Delay 2")
        promptgroup("41 - Link 0-7")
        interest(1)
    }
    field(DOL2,DBF_INLINK) {
        prompt("Input link 2")
        promptgroup("41 - Link 0-7")
        interest(1)
    }
    field(DO2,DBF_DOUBLE) {
        prompt("Value 2")
        interest(1)
    }
    field(LNK2,DBF_OUTLINK) {
        prompt("Output Link 2")
        promptgroup("41 - Link 0-7")
        interest(1)
    }
    field(DLY3,DBF_DOUBLE) {
        prompt("Delay 3")
        promptgroup("41 - Link 0-7")
        interest(1)
    }
    field(DOL3,DBF_INLINK) {
        prompt("Input link 3")
        promptgroup("41 - Link 0-7")
        interest(1)
    }
    field(DO3,DBF_DOUBLE) {
        prompt("Value 3")
        interest(1)
    }
    field(LNK3,DBF_OUTLINK) {
        prompt("Output Link 3")
        promptgroup("41 - Link 0-7")
        interest(1)
    }
    field(DLY4,DBF_DOUBLE) {
        prompt("Delay 4")
        promptgroup("41 - Link 0-7")
        interest(1)
    }
    field(DOL4,DBF_INLINK) {
        prompt("Input link 4")
        promptgroup("41 - Link 0-7")
        interest(1)
    }
    field(DO4,DBF_DOUBLE) {
        prompt("Value 4")
        interest(1)
    }
    field(LNK4,DBF_OUTLINK) {
        prompt("Output Link 4")
        promptgroup("41 - Link 0-7")
        interest(1)
    }
    field(DLY5,DBF_DOUBLE) {
        prompt("Delay 5")
        promptgroup("41 - Link 0-7")
        interest(1)
    }
    field(DOL5,DBF_INLINK) {
        prompt("Input link 5")
        promptgroup("41 - Link 0-7")
        interest(1)
    }
    field(DO5,DBF_DOUBLE) {
        prompt("Value 5")
        interest(1)
    }
    field(LNK5,DBF_OUTLINK) {
        prompt("Output Link 5")
        promptgroup("41 - Link 0-7")
        interest(1)
    }
    field(DLY6,DBF_DOUBLE) {
        prompt("Delay 6")
        promptgroup("41 - Link 0-7")
        interest(1)
    }
    field(DOL6,DBF_INLINK) {
        prompt("Input link 6")
        promptgroup("41 - Link 0-7")
        interest(1)
    }
    field(DO6,DBF_DOUBLE) {
        prompt("Value 6")
        interest(1)
    }
    field(LNK6,DBF_OUTLINK) {
        prompt("Output Link 6")
        promptgroup("41 - Link 0-7")
        interest(1)
    }
    field(DLY7,DBF_DOUBLE) {
        prompt("Delay 7")
        promptgroup("41 - Link 0-7")
        interest(1)
    }
    field(DOL7,DBF_INLINK) {
        prompt("Input link 7")
        promptgroup("41 - Link 0-7")
        interest(1)
    }
    field(DO7,DBF_DOUBLE) {
        prompt("Value 7")
        interest(1)
    }
    field(LNK7,DBF_OUTLINK) {
        prompt("Output Link 7")
        promptgroup("41 - Link 0-7")
        interest(1)
    }
    field(DLY8,DBF_DOUBLE) {
        prompt("Delay 8")
        promptgroup("42 - Link 8-F")
        interest(1)
    }
    field(DOL8,DBF_INLINK) {
        prompt("Input link 8")
        promptgroup("42 - Link 8-F")
        interest(1)
    }
    field(DO8,DBF_DOUBLE) {
        prompt("Value 8")
        interest(1)
    }
    field(LNK8,DBF_OUTLINK) {
        prompt("Output Link 8")
        promptgroup("42 - Link 8-F")
        interest(1)
    }
    field(DLY9,DBF_DOUBLE) {
        prompt("Delay 9")
        promptgroup("42 - Link 8-F")
        interest(1)
    }
    field(DOL9,DBF_INLINK) {
        prompt("Input link 9")
        promptgroup("42 - Link 8-F")
        interest(1)
    }
    field(DO9,DBF_DOUBLE) {
        prompt("Value 9")
        interest(1)
    }
    field(LNK9,DBF_OUTLINK) {
        prompt("Output Link 9")
        promptgroup("42 - Link 8-F")
        interest(1)
    }
    field(DLYA,DBF_DOUBLE) {
        prompt("Delay 10")
        promptgroup("42 - Link 8-F")
        interest(1)
    }
    field(DOLA,DBF_INLINK) {
        prompt("Input link 10")
        promptgroup("42 - Link 8-F")
        interest(1)
    }
    field(DOA,DBF_DOUBLE) {
        prompt("Value 10")
        interest(1)
    }
    field(LNKA,DBF_OUTLINK) {
        prompt("Output Link 10")
        promptgroup("42 - Link 8-F")
        interest(1)
    }
    field(DLYB,DBF_DOUBLE) {
        prompt("Delay 11")
        promptgroup("42 - Link 8-F")
        interest(1)
    }
    field(DOLB,DBF_INLINK) {
        prompt("Input link 11")
        promptgroup("42 - Link 8-F")
        interest(1)
    }
    field(DOB,DBF_DOUBLE) {
        prompt("Value 11")
        interest(1)
    }
    field(LNKB,DBF_OUTLINK) {
        prompt("Output Link 11")
        promptgroup("42 - Link 8-F")
        interest(1)
    }
    field(DLYC,DBF_DOUBLE) {
        prompt("Delay 12")
        promptgroup("42 - Link 8-F")
        interest(1)
    }
    field(DOLC,DBF_INLINK) {
        prompt("Input link 12")
        promptgroup("42 - Link 8-F")
        interest(1)
    }
    field(DOC,DBF_DOUBLE) {
        prompt("Value 12")
        interest(1)
    }
    field(LNKC,DBF_OUTLINK) {
        prompt("Output Link 12")
        promptgroup("42 - Link 8-F")
        interest(1)
    }
    field(DLYD,DBF_DOUBLE) {
        prompt("Delay 13")
        promptgroup("42 - Link 8-F")
        interest(1)
    }
    field(DOLD,DBF_INLINK) {
        prompt("Input link 13")
        promptgroup("42 - Link 8-F")
        interest(1)
    }
    field(DOD,DBF_DOUBLE) {
        prompt("Value 13")
        interest(1)
    }
    field(LNKD,DBF_OUTLINK) {
        prompt("Output Link 13")
        promptgroup("42 - Link 8-F")
        interest(1)
    }
    field(DLYE,DBF_DOUBLE) {
        prompt("Delay 14")
        promptgroup("42 - Link 8-F")
        interest(1)
    }
    field(DOLE,DBF_INLINK) {
        prompt("Input link 14")
        promptgroup("42 - Link 8-F")
        interest(1)
    }
    field(DOE,DBF_DOUBLE) {
        prompt("Value 14")
        interest(1)
    }
    field(LNKE,DBF_OUTLINK) {
        prompt("Output Link 14")
        promptgroup("42 - Link 8-F")
        interest(1)
    }
    field(DLYF,DBF_DOUBLE) {
        prompt("Delay 15")
        promptgroup("42 - Link 8-F")
        interest(1)
    }
    field(DOLF,DBF_INLINK) {
        prompt("Input link 15")
        promptgroup("42 - Link 8-F")
        interest(1)
    }
    field(DOF,DBF_DOUBLE) {
        prompt("Value 15")
        interest(1)
    }
    field(LNKF,DBF_OUTLINK) {
        prompt("Output Link 15")
        promptgroup("42 - Link 8-F")
        interest(1)
    }
}

variable(seqDLYprecision, int)
variable(seqDLYlimit, double)
