#*************************************************************************
# Copyright (c) 2002 The University of Chicago, as Operator of Argonne
#     National Laboratory.
# Copyright (c) 2002 The Regents of the University of California, as
#     Operator of Los Alamos National Laboratory.
# EPICS BASE is distributed subject to a Software License Agreement found
# in file LICENSE that is included with this distribution.
#*************************************************************************

=title String Input Record (stringin)

The string input record retrieves an arbitrary ASCII string of up to 40
characters. Several device support routines are available, all of which are soft
device support for retrieving values from other records or other software
components.

=recordtype stringin

=cut

menu(stringinPOST) {
	choice(stringinPOST_OnChange,"On Change")
	choice(stringinPOST_Always,"Always")
}
recordtype(stringin) {
	include "dbCommon.dbd"
	field(VAL,DBF_STRING) {
		prompt("Current Value")
		promptgroup("40 - Input")
		asl(ASL0)
		pp(TRUE)
		size(40)
	}
	field(OVAL,DBF_STRING) {
		prompt("Previous Value")
		special(SPC_NOMOD)
		interest(3)
		size(40)
	}

=head2 Parameter Fields

The record-specific fields are described below, grouped by functionality.

=head3 Scan Parameters

The string input record has the standard fields for specifying under what
circumstances it will be processed. These fields are listed in L<Scan Fields>.
In addition, L<Scanning Specification> explains how these fields are used.

=head3 Read Parameters

The INP field determines where the string input record gets its string. It can
be a database or channel access link, or a constant. If constant, the VAL field
is initialized with the constant and can be changed via dbPuts. Otherwise, the
string is read from the specified location each time the record is processed and
placed in the VAL field. The maximum number of characters that the string in VAL
can be is 40. In addition, the appropriate device support module must be entered
into the DTYP field.

See L<Address Specification> for information on specifying links.

=fields VAL, INP, DTYP

=cut

	field(INP,DBF_INLINK) {
		prompt("Input Specification")
		promptgroup("40 - Input")
		interest(1)
	}

=head3 Monitor Parameters

These parameters are used to specify when the monitor post should be sent by
C<monitor()> routine. There are two possible choices:

=head4 Menu stringinPOST

=menu stringinPOST

APST is used for archiver monitors and MPST is for all other type of monitors.

=fields MPST, APST

=cut

	field(MPST,DBF_MENU) {
		prompt("Post Value Monitors")
		promptgroup("80 - Display")
		interest(1)
		menu(stringinPOST)
	}
	field(APST,DBF_MENU) {
		prompt("Post Archive Monitors")
		promptgroup("80 - Display")
		interest(1)
		menu(stringinPOST)
	}

=head3 Operator Display Parameters

See L<Fields Common to All Record Types> for more on the record name (NAME) and
description (DESC) fields.

=fields NAME, DESC

=head3 Alarm Parameters

The string input record has the alarm parameters common to all record types.
L<Alarm Fields> lists other fields related to a alarms that are common to all
record types.

=head3 Run-time and Simulation Mode Parameters

The old value field (OVAL) of the string input is used to implement value change
monitors for VAL. If VAL is not equal to OVAL, then monitors are triggered.

=fields OVAL


The following fields are used to operate the string input in the simulation
mode. See L<Simulation Mode> for more information on simulation mode fields.

=fields SIOL, SVAL, SIML, SIMM, SIMS, SSCN, SDLY

=cut

	field(SIOL,DBF_INLINK) {
		prompt("Simulation Input Link")
		promptgroup("90 - Simulate")
		interest(1)
	}
	field(SVAL,DBF_STRING) {
		prompt("Simulation Value")
		pp(TRUE)
		size(40)
	}
	field(SIML,DBF_INLINK) {
		prompt("Simulation Mode Link")
		promptgroup("90 - Simulate")
		interest(1)
	}
	field(SIMM,DBF_MENU) {
		prompt("Simulation Mode")
		special(SPC_MOD)
		interest(1)
		menu(menuYesNo)
	}
	field(SIMS,DBF_MENU) {
		prompt("Simulation Mode Severity")
		promptgroup("90 - Simulate")
		interest(2)
		menu(menuAlarmSevr)
	}
    field(OLDSIMM,DBF_MENU) {
        prompt("Prev. Simulation Mode")
        special(SPC_NOMOD)
        interest(4)
        menu(menuSimm)
    }
    field(SSCN,DBF_MENU) {
        prompt("Sim. Mode Scan")
        promptgroup("90 - Simulate")
        interest(1)
        menu(menuScan)
        initial("65535")
    }
    field(SDLY,DBF_DOUBLE) {
        prompt("Sim. Mode Async Delay")
        promptgroup("90 - Simulate")
        interest(2)
        initial("-1.0")
    }
    %#include "callback.h"
    field(SIMPVT,DBF_NOACCESS) {
        prompt("Sim. Mode Private")
        special(SPC_NOMOD)
        interest(4)
        extra("epicsCallback            *simpvt")
    }

=head2 Record Support

=head3 Record Support Routines

=head4 init_record

  long (*init_record)(struct dbCommon *precord, int pass)

This routine initializes SIMM with the value of SIML if SIML type is CONSTANT
link or creates a channel access link if SIML type is PV_LINK. SVAL is likewise
initialized if SIOL is CONSTANT or PV_LINK.

This routine next checks to see that device support is available and a record
support read routine is defined. If either does not exist, an error message is
issued and processing is terminated.

If device support includes an C<init_record()> routine it is called.

=head4 process

  long (*process)(struct dbCommon *precord)

See L<Record Processing>.

=head3 Record Processing

Routine process implements the following algorithm:

=over

=item 1.

Check to see that the appropriate device support module exists. If it doesn't,
an error message is issued and processing is terminated with the PACT field
still set to TRUE. This ensures that processes will no longer be called for this
record. Thus error storms will not occur.

=item 2.

readValue is called. See L<Simulation Mode> for more information on simulation
mode fields and how they affect input.

=item 3.

If PACT has been changed to TRUE, the device support read routine has started
but has not completed reading a new input value. In this case, the processing
routine merely returns, leaving PACT TRUE.

=item 4.

C<recGblGetTimeStamp()> is called.

=item 5.

Check to see if monitors should be invoked.

=over

=item *

Alarm monitors are invoked if the alarm status or severity has changed.

=item *

Archive and value change monitors are invoked if OVAL is not equal to VAL.

=item *

NSEV and NSTA are reset to 0.

=back

=item 6.

Scan forward link if necessary, set PACT FALSE, and return.

=back

=begin html

<br>
<hr>
<br>

=end html

=head2 Device Support

=head3 Fields Of Interest To Device Support

Each stringin input record must have an associated set of device support
routines. The primary responsibility of the device support routines is to obtain
a new ASCII string value whenever read_stringin is called. The device support
routines are primarily interested in the following fields:

=fields PACT, DPVT, UDF, VAL, INP

=head3 Device Support Routines (devSiSoft.c)

=head4 init_record

  long init_record(stringinRecord *prec)

This routine is optional. If provided, it is called by the record support
C<init_record()> routine.

=head4 read_stringin

  long read_stringin(stringinRecord *prec)

This routine must provide a new input value. It returns the following values:

=over

=item * 0: Success. A new ASCII string is stored into VAL.

=item * Other: Error.

=back

=head3 Device Support for Soft Records

The C<<< Soft Channel >>> module places a value directly in VAL.

If the INP link type is constant, the double constant, if non-zero, is converted
to a string and stored into VAL by C<init_record()>, and UDF is set to FALSE. If
the INP link type is PV_LINK, then dbCaAddInlink is called by C<init_record()>.

read_stringin calls recGblGetLinkValue to read the current value of VAL. See
L<Soft Input>.

If the return status of recGblGetLinkValue is zero, then read_stringin sets UDF
to FALSE. The status of recGblGetLinkValue is returned.

=cut

}
