#*************************************************************************
# Copyright (c) 2009 UChicago Argonne LLC, as Operator of Argonne
#     National Laboratory.
# Copyright (c) 2002 The Regents of the University of California, as
#     Operator of Los Alamos National Laboratory.
# EPICS BASE is distributed subject to a Software License Agreement found
# in file LICENSE that is included with this distribution. 
#*************************************************************************

=head1 Menu menuPini

This menu defines the choices for the C<PINI> field, which controls whether
and when each record should be processed during initialization or pausing
of the IOC. Choices other than C<NO> cause record processing at the
following initHook transitions:

=over 4

=item YES

C<initHookAfterScanInit> E<mdash> All records and links have been
initialized but the scan threads and CA server are not running yet, nor
have CA links been connected up. The initHook C<initHookAfterInitialProcess>
immediately follows this procssing.

=item RUN

C<initHookAtIocRun> E<mdash> The C<iocRun()> routine has just been called,
although not necessarily for the first time.

=item RUNNING

C<initHookAfterIocRunning> E<mdash> All remaining initializations have
taken place, C<interruptAccept> is enabled, the scan threads and CA server
are running and the IOC is processing records. CA links might not have
finished connecting though, and sequence programs won't usually have been
started yet.

=item PAUSE

C<initHookAtIocPause> E<mdash> The C<iocPause()> routine has just been
called and the IOC is about to suspend operations.

=item PAUSED

C<initHookAfterIocPaused> E<mdash> The CA server, CA link operations and
the scan threads have been paused and C<interruptAccept> disabled.

=back

Note that the order in which records that have the same C<PINI> value get
processed can be controlled by setting their C<PHAS> field, which is honored
for C<PINI> processing as well as for regular scanning.

=menu menuPini

=cut

menu(menuPini) {
	choice(menuPiniNO,"NO")
	choice(menuPiniYES,"YES")
	choice(menuPiniRUN,"RUN")
	choice(menuPiniRUNNING,"RUNNING")
	choice(menuPiniPAUSE,"PAUSE")
	choice(menuPiniPAUSED,"PAUSED")
}
