#*************************************************************************
# Copyright (c) 2016 UChicago Argonne LLC, as Operator of Argonne
#     National Laboratory.
# Copyright (c) 2002 The Regents of the University of California, as
#     Operator of Los Alamos National Laboratory.
# EPICS BASE is distributed subject to a Software License Agreement found
# in file LICENSE that is included with this distribution.
#*************************************************************************

=title 64bit Integer Output Record (int64out)

This record type is normally used to send an integer value of up to 64 bits
to an output device.
The record supports alarm, drive, graphics and control limits.

=head2 Parameter Fields

The record-specific fields are described below.

=recordtype int64out

=cut

recordtype(int64out) {

=head3 Output Value Determination

These fields control how the record determines the value to be output when it
gets processed:

=fields OMSL, DOL, DRVH, DRVL, VAL

The following steps are performed in order during record processing.

=head4 Fetch Value

The OMSL menu field is used to determine whether the DOL link field
should be used during processing or not:

=over

=item *
If OMSL is C<supervisory> the DOL link field is not used.
The new output value is taken from the VAL field, which may have been set from
elsewhere.

=item *
If OMSL is C<closed_loop> the DOL link field is used to obtain a value.

=back

=head4 Drive Limits

The output value is clipped to the range DRVL to DRVH inclusive, provided
that DRVH > DRVL.
The result is copied into the VAL field.

=head3 Output Specification

These fields control where the record will read data from when it is processed:

=fields DTYP, OUT

The DTYP field selects which device support layer should be responsible for
writing output data.
The int64out device support layers provided by EPICS Base are documented in the
L<Device Support> section.
External support modules may provide additional device support for this record
type.
If not set explicitly, the DTYP value defaults to the first device support that
is loaded for the record type, which will usually be the C<Soft Channel> support
that comes with Base.

The OUT link field contains a database or channel access link or provides
hardware address information that the device support uses to determine where the
output data should be sent to.
The format for the OUT field value depends on the device support layer that is
selected by the DTYP field.
See L<Address Specification|...> for a description of the various hardware
address formats supported.

=head3 Operator Display Parameters

These parameters are used to present meaningful data to the operator.
They do not affect the functioning of the record.

=over

=item *
DESC is a string that is usually used to briefly describe the record.

=item *
EGU is a string of up to 16 characters naming the engineering units
that the VAL field represents.

=item *
The HOPR and LOPR fields set the upper and lower display limits for the VAL,
HIHI, HIGH, LOW, and LOLO fields.

=back

=fields DESC, EGU, HOPR, LOPR

=head3 Alarm Limits

The user configures limit alarms by putting numerical values into the HIHI,
HIGH, LOW and LOLO fields, and by setting the associated alarm severities
in the corresponding HHSV, HSV, LSV and LLSV menu fields.

The HYST field controls hysteresis to prevent alarm chattering from an input
signal that is close to one of the limits and suffers from significant readout
noise.

The LALM field is used by the record at run-time to implement the alarm limit
hysteresis functionality.

=fields HIHI, HIGH, LOW, LOLO, HHSV, HSV, LSV, LLSV, HYST, LALM

=head3 Monitor Parameters

These parameters are used to determine when to send monitors placed on the VAL
field.
The monitors are sent when the current value exceeds the last transmitted value
by the appropriate deadband.
If these fields are set to zero, a monitor will be triggered every time the
value changes; if set to -1, a monitor will be sent every time the record is
processed.

The ADEL field sets the deadband for archive monitors (C<DBE_LOG> events), while
the MDEL field controls value monitors (C<DBE_VALUE> events).

The remaining fields are used by the record at run-time to implement the record
monitoring deadband functionality.

=fields ADEL, MDEL, ALST, MLST

=cut

    include "dbCommon.dbd"
    field(VAL,DBF_INT64) {
        prompt("Desired Output")
        promptgroup("50 - Output")
        asl(ASL0)
        pp(TRUE)
    }
    field(OUT,DBF_OUTLINK) {
        prompt("Output Specification")
        promptgroup("50 - Output")
        interest(1)
    }
    field(DOL,DBF_INLINK) {
        prompt("Desired Output Loc")
        promptgroup("40 - Input")
        interest(1)
    }
    field(OMSL,DBF_MENU) {
        prompt("Output Mode Select")
        promptgroup("50 - Output")
        interest(1)
        menu(menuOmsl)
    }
    field(EGU,DBF_STRING) {
        prompt("Units name")
        promptgroup("80 - Display")
        interest(1)
        size(16)
        prop(YES)
    }
    field(DRVH,DBF_INT64) {
        prompt("Drive High Limit")
        promptgroup("30 - Action")
        pp(TRUE)
        interest(1)
        prop(YES)
    }
    field(DRVL,DBF_INT64) {
        prompt("Drive Low Limit")
        promptgroup("30 - Action")
        pp(TRUE)
        interest(1)
        prop(YES)
    }
    field(HOPR,DBF_INT64) {
        prompt("High Operating Range")
        promptgroup("80 - Display")
        interest(1)
        prop(YES)
    }
    field(LOPR,DBF_INT64) {
        prompt("Low Operating Range")
        promptgroup("80 - Display")
        interest(1)
        prop(YES)
    }
    field(HIHI,DBF_INT64) {
        prompt("Hihi Alarm Limit")
        promptgroup("70 - Alarm")
        pp(TRUE)
        interest(1)
        prop(YES)
    }
    field(LOLO,DBF_INT64) {
        prompt("Lolo Alarm Limit")
        promptgroup("70 - Alarm")
        pp(TRUE)
        interest(1)
        prop(YES)
    }
    field(HIGH,DBF_INT64) {
        prompt("High Alarm Limit")
        promptgroup("70 - Alarm")
        pp(TRUE)
        interest(1)
        prop(YES)
    }
    field(LOW,DBF_INT64) {
        prompt("Low Alarm Limit")
        promptgroup("70 - Alarm")
        pp(TRUE)
        interest(1)
        prop(YES)
    }
    field(HHSV,DBF_MENU) {
        prompt("Hihi Severity")
        promptgroup("70 - Alarm")
        pp(TRUE)
        interest(1)
        menu(menuAlarmSevr)
    }
    field(LLSV,DBF_MENU) {
        prompt("Lolo Severity")
        promptgroup("70 - Alarm")
        pp(TRUE)
        interest(1)
        menu(menuAlarmSevr)
    }
    field(HSV,DBF_MENU) {
        prompt("High Severity")
        promptgroup("70 - Alarm")
        pp(TRUE)
        interest(1)
        menu(menuAlarmSevr)
    }
    field(LSV,DBF_MENU) {
        prompt("Low Severity")
        promptgroup("70 - Alarm")
        pp(TRUE)
        interest(1)
        menu(menuAlarmSevr)
    }
    field(HYST,DBF_INT64) {
        prompt("Alarm Deadband")
        promptgroup("70 - Alarm")
        interest(1)
    }
    field(ADEL,DBF_INT64) {
        prompt("Archive Deadband")
        promptgroup("80 - Display")
        interest(1)
    }
    field(MDEL,DBF_INT64) {
        prompt("Monitor Deadband")
        promptgroup("80 - Display")
        interest(1)
    }
    field(LALM,DBF_INT64) {
        prompt("Last Value Alarmed")
        special(SPC_NOMOD)
        interest(3)
    }
    field(ALST,DBF_INT64) {
        prompt("Last Value Archived")
        special(SPC_NOMOD)
        interest(3)
    }
    field(MLST,DBF_INT64) {
        prompt("Last Val Monitored")
        special(SPC_NOMOD)
        interest(3)
    }

=head3 Simulation Mode

The record provides several fields to support simulation of absent hardware.
If the SIML field is set it is used to read a value into the SIMM field,
which controls whether simulation is used or not:

=over

=item *
SIMM must be zero (C<NO>) for the record to write a value to the device
support.

=item *
If SIMM is C<YES> and the SIOL link field is set, the value in engineering
units is written using the link.

=back

The SIMS field can be set to give the record an alarm severity while it is in
simulation mode.

=fields SIML, SIMM, SIOL, SIMS

=cut

    field(SIOL,DBF_OUTLINK) {
        prompt("Sim Output Specifctn")
        promptgroup("90 - Simulate")
        interest(1)
    }
    field(SIML,DBF_INLINK) {
        prompt("Sim Mode Location")
        promptgroup("90 - Simulate")
        interest(1)
    }
    field(SIMM,DBF_MENU) {
        prompt("Simulation Mode")
        interest(1)
        menu(menuYesNo)
    }
    field(SIMS,DBF_MENU) {
        prompt("Sim mode Alarm Svrty")
        promptgroup("90 - Simulate")
        interest(2)
        menu(menuAlarmSevr)
    }

=head3 Invalid Alarm Output Action

Whenever an output record is put into INVALID alarm severity, IVOA specifies
the action to take.

=over

=item C<Continue normally> (default)

Write the value. Same as if severity is lower than INVALID.

=item C<Don't drive outputs>

Do not write value.

=item C<Set output to IVOV>

Set VAL to IVOV, then write the value.

=back

=fields IVOA, IVOV

=cut

    field(IVOA,DBF_MENU) {
        prompt("INVALID output action")
        promptgroup("50 - Output")
        interest(2)
        menu(menuIvoa)
    }
    field(IVOV,DBF_INT64) {
        prompt("INVALID output value")
        promptgroup("50 - Output")
        interest(2)
    }
}

=head2 Record Support

=head3 Record Support Routines

The following are the record support routines that would be of interest
to an application developer.
Other routines are the C<get_units>, C<get_graphic_double>,
C<get_alarm_double> and C<get_control_double> routines, which are used to
collect properties from the record for the complex DBR data structures.

=head4 init_record

This routine first initializes the simulation mode mechanism by setting SIMM
if SIML is a constant.

It then checks if the device support and the device support's
C<write_int64out> routine are defined.
If either one does not exist, an error message is issued
and processing is terminated.

If DOL is a constant, then VAL is initialized with its value and UDF is
set to FALSE.

If device support includes C<init_record>, it is called.

Finally, the deadband mechanisms for monitors and level alarms are
initialized.

=head4 process

See next section.

=head3 Record Processing

Routine C<process> implements the following algorithm:

=over

=item 1.

Check to see that the appropriate device support module and its
C<write_int64out> routine are defined.
If either one does not exist, an error message is issued and processing is
terminated with the PACT field set to TRUE, effectively blocking the record
to avoid error storms.

=item 2.

Check PACT. If PACT is FALSE, do the following:

=over

=item * Determine value, honoring closed loop mode:
if DOL is not a CONSTANT and OMSL is CLOSED_LOOP then get value from DOL
setting UDF to FALSE in case of success, else use the VAL field.

=item * Call C<convert>:
if drive limits are defined then force value to be within those limits.

=back

=item 3.

Check UDF and level alarms: This routine checks to see if the record is
undefined (UDF is TRUE) or if the new VAL causes the alarm status
and severity to change. In the latter case, NSEV, NSTA and LALM are set.
It also honors the alarm hysteresis factor (HYST): the value must change
by at least HYST between level alarm status and severity changes.

=item 4.

Check severity and write the new value. See L<Invalid Alarm Output Action>
for details on how invalid alarms affect output records.

=item 5.

If PACT has been changed to TRUE, the device support signals asynchronous
processing: its C<write_int64out> output routine has started, but not
completed writing the new value.
In this case, the processing routine merely returns, leaving PACT TRUE.

=item 6.

Check to see if monitors should be invoked:

=over

=item * Alarm monitors are posted if the alarm status or severity have
changed.

=item * Archive and value change monitors are posted if ADEL and MDEL
conditions (see L<Monitor Parameters>) are met.

=item * NSEV and NSTA are reset to 0.

=back

=item 7.

Scan (process) forward link if necessary, set PACT to FALSE, and return.

=back

=head2 Device Support

=head3 Device Support Interface

The record requires device support to provide an entry table (dset) which
defines the following members:

 typedef struct {
     long number;
     long (*report)(int level);
     long (*init)(int after);
     long (*init_record)(int64outRecord *prec);
     long (*get_ioint_info)(int cmd, int64outRecord *prec, IOSCANPVT *piosl);
     long (*write_int64out)(int64outRecord *prec);
 } int64outdset;

The module must set C<number> to at least 5, and provide a pointer to its
C<write_int64out()> routine; the other function pointers may be C<NULL> if their
associated functionality is not required for this support layer.
Most device supports also provide an C<init_record()> routine to configure the
record instance and connect it to the hardware or driver support layer.

The individual routines are described below.

=head3 Device Support Routines

=head4 long report(int level)

This optional routine is called by the IOC command C<dbior> and is passed the
report level that was requested by the user.
It should print a report on the state of the device support to stdout.
The C<level> parameter may be used to output increasingly more detailed
information at higher levels, or to select different types of information with
different levels.
Level zero should print no more than a small summary.

=head4 long init(int after)

This optional routine is called twice at IOC initialization time.
The first call happens before any of the C<init_record()> calls are made, with
the integer parameter C<after> set to 0.
The second call happens after all of the C<init_record()> calls have been made,
with C<after> set to 1.

=head4 long init_record(int64outRecord *prec)

This optional routine is called by the record initialization code for each
int64out record instance that has its DTYP field set to use this device support.
It is normally used to check that the OUT address is the expected type and that
it points to a valid device, to allocate any record-specific buffer space and
other memory, and to connect any communication channels needed for the
C<write_int64out()> routine to work properly.

=head4 long get_ioint_info(int cmd, int64outRecord *prec, IOSCANPVT *piosl)

This optional routine is called whenever the record's SCAN field is being
changed to or from the value C<I/O Intr> to find out which I/O Interrupt Scan
list the record should be added to or deleted from.
If this routine is not provided, it will not be possible to set the SCAN field
to the value C<I/O Intr> at all.

The C<cmd> parameter is zero when the record is being added to the scan list,
and one when it is being removed from the list.
The routine must determine which interrupt source the record should be connected
to, which it indicates by the scan list that it points the location at C<*piosl>
to before returning.
It can prevent the SCAN field from being changed at all by returning a non-zero
value to its caller.

In most cases the device support will create the I/O Interrupt Scan lists that
it returns for itself, by calling C<void scanIoInit(IOSCANPVT *piosl)> once for
each separate interrupt source.
That routine allocates memory and inializes the list, then passes back a pointer
to the new list in the location at C<*piosl>.

When the device support receives notification that the interrupt has occurred,
it announces that to the IOC by calling C<void scanIoRequest(IOSCANPVT iosl)>
which will arrange for the appropriate records to be processed in a suitable
thread.
The C<scanIoRequest()> routine is safe to call from an interrupt service routine
on embedded architectures (vxWorks and RTEMS).

=head4 long write_int64out(int64outRecord *prec)

This essential routine is called when the record wants to write a new value
to the addressed device.
It is responsible for performing (or at least initiating) a write operation,
using the value from the record's VAL field.

If the device may take more than a few microseconds to accept the new value,
this routine must never block (busy-wait), but use the asynchronous
processing mechanism.
In that case it signals the asynchronous operation by setting the record's
PACT field to TRUE before it returns, having arranged for the record's
C<process()> routine to be called later once the write operation is over.
When that happens, the C<write_int64out()> routine will be called again with
PACT still set to TRUE; it should then set it to FALSE to indicate the write
has completed, and return.

A return value of zero indicates success, any other value indicates that an
error occurred.

=head3 Extended Device Support

...

=cut

=head2 Device Support For Soft Records

Two soft device support modules, Soft Channel and Soft Callback Channel, are
provided for output records not related to actual hardware devices. The
OUT link type must be either a CONSTANT, DB_LINK, or CA_LINK.

=head3 Soft Channel

This module writes the current value using the record's VAL field.

C<write_int64out> calls C<dbPutLink> to write the current value.

=head3 Soft Callback Channel

This module is like the previous except that it writes the current value
using asynchronous processing that will not complete until an asynchronous
processing of the target record has completed.

=cut
