# EPICS Base Release 3.15.7

This version of EPICS Base has not been released yet.

## Changes made on the 3.15 branch since 3.15.6

### Cleaning up with Multiple CA contexts in a Process

Bruno Martins reported a problem with the CA client library at shutdown
in a process that uses multiple CA client contexts. The first context
that triggers the CA client exit handler prevents any others from being
able to clean up because it resets the ID of an internal
epicsThreadPrivate variable which is shared by all clients. This action
has been removed from the client library, which makes cleanup of clients
like this possible.

### Perl CA bindings fixed for macOS Mojave

Apple removed some Perl header files from macOS Mojave that were
available in their SDK, requiring a change to the include paths used
when compiling the CA bindings. The new version should build on new and
older macOS versions, and these changes may also help other targets that
have an incomplete installation of Perl (the build will continue after
printing a warning that the Perl CA bindings could not be built).

### Routine `epicsTempName()` removed from libCom

This routine was a simple wrapper around the C89 function `tmpnam()`
which is now seen as unsafe and causes warning messages to be generated
by most modern compilers. The two internal uses of this function have
been modified to call `epicsTempFile()` instead. We were unable to find
any published code that used this function, so it was removed
immediately instead of being deprecated.

### DBD Parsing of Record Types

The Perl DBD file parser has been made slightly more liberal; the order
in which DBD files must be parsed is now more flexible, so that a record
type definition can now be parsed after a device support that referred
to that record type. A warning message will be displayed when the device
support is seen, but the subsequent loading of the record type will be
accepted without triggering an error. See [Launchpad bug
\#1801145](https://bugs.launchpad.net/epics-base/+bug/1801145).

### menuScan and several record types documented with POD

The EPICS Wiki pages describing a number of standard record types has
been converted into the Perl POD documentation format and added to the
DBD files, so at build-time an HTML version of these documents is
generated and installed into the htmls directory. Thanks to Tony
Pietryla.

### CA client tools learned `-V` option

This displays the version numbers of EPICS Base and the CA protocol.

## Changes made between 3.15.5 and 3.15.6

### Unsetting environment variables

The new command `epicsEnvUnset varname` can be used to unset an
environment variable.

### Warning indicators in msi (and macLib) output

The libCom macro expansion library has been modified so that when the
SUPPRESS\_WARNINGS flag is set it will no longer include any
`,undefined` or `,recursive` indicators in its output when undefined or
recursive macros are encountered. These indicators were harmless when
the output was fed into an IOC along with a definition for the macro,
but when the `msi` tool was used to generate other kinds of files they
caused problems. If the `msi -V` flag is used the markers will still be
present in the output whenever the appropriate condition is seen.

### Improvements to msi

In addition to fixing its response to discovering parsing errors in its
substitution input file (reported as Launchpad [bug
\#1503661](https://bugs.launchpad.net/epics-base/+bug/1503661)) so it
now deletes the incomplete output file, the msi program has been cleaned
up a little bit internally.

### All array records now post monitors on their array-length fields

The waveform record has been posting monitors on its NORD field since
Base 3.15.0.1; we finally got around to doing the equivalent in all the
other built-in record types, which even required modifying device
support in some cases. This fixes [Launchpad bug
\#1730727](https://bugs.launchpad.net/epics-base/+bug/1730727).

### HOWTO: Converting Wiki Record Reference to POD

Some documentation has been added to the `dbdToHtml.pl` script
explaining how Perl POD (Plain Old Documentation) markup can be added to
`.dbd` files to generate HTML documentation for the record types. To see
these instructions, run `perl bin/<host>/dbdToHtml.pl -H` or
`perldoc bin/<host>/dbdToHtml.pl`.

### Fix problem with numeric soft events

Changing from numeric to named soft events introduced an incompatibility
when a numeric event 1-255 is converted from a DOUBLE, e.g. from a calc
record. The `post_event()` API is not marked deprecated any more.

Also `scanpel` has been modified to accept a glob pattern for event name
filtering and to show events with no connected records as well.

### Add osiSockOptMcastLoop\_t and osiSockTest

Added a new OS-independent typedef for multicast socket options, and a
test file to check their correct operation.

### Support for CONFIG\_SITE.local in Base

This feature is mostly meant for use by developers; configuration
settings that would normally appear in Base/configure/CONFIG\_SITE can
now be put in a locally created base/configure/CONFIG\_SITE.local file
instead of having go modify or replace the original. A new .gitignore
pattern tells git to ignore all configure/\*.local files.

### Fix broken `EPICS_IOC_LOG_FILE_LIMIT=0` setting

The Application Developers' Guide says this is allowed and disables the
limit on the log-file, but it hasn't actually worked for some time (if
ever). Note that the iocLogServer will be removed from newer Base
release sometime soon as its functionality can be implemented by other
dedicated log servers such as logstash or syslog-ng.

Fixes [lp:1786858](https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/1786858) and part of
[lp:1786966](https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/1786966).

### Cleanup of startup directory

The files in the startup directory have not been maintained in recent
years and have grown crufty (technical term). This release includes the
following updates to these files:

  - The Perl `EpicsHostArch.pl` script has been rewritten, and support
    for a few previously missing host architectures has been added to
    it.
  - The `EpicsHostArch.pl` script has also been moved into the standard
    `src/tools` directory, from where it will be installed into
    `lib/perl`. In this new location it is no longer executable, so it
    must be run by the `perl` executable.
  - The build system has been adjusted to look for `EpicsHostArch.pl` in
    both places if the `EPICS_HOST_ARCH` environment variable has not
    been set at build-time.
  - Sites that used the original Perl script to set `EPICS_HOST_ARCH` as
    part of their standard environment will need to adjust their scripts
    when they upgrade to this release.
  - The `EpicsHostArch` shell script has been replaced with a wrapper
    routine that calls the Perl `EpicsHostArch.pl` script. Sites that
    rely on this script to set `EPICS_HOST_ARCH` should consider
    switching to the Perl script instead.
  - The `Site.cshrc` and `Site.profile` files have been renamed to
    `unix.csh` and `unix.sh`, respectively.
  - The existing `win32.bat` file has been cleaned up and a new
    `windows.bat` file added for 64-bit targets. The contents of these
    files should be seen as examples, don't uncomment or install parts
    for software that you don't explicitly know that you need.

### Recent Apple XCode Build Issues

The latest version of XCode will not compile calls to `system()` or
`clock_settime()` for iOS targets. There were several places in Base
where these were being compiled, although there were probably never
called. The code has now been modified to permit iOS builds to complete
again.

### Prevent illegal alarm severities

A check has been added to `recGblResetAlarms()` that prevents records
from getting an alarm severity higher than INVALID\_ALARM. It is still
possible for a field like HSV to get set to a value that is not a legal
alarm severity, but the core IOC code should never copy such a value
into a record's SEVR or ACKS fields. With this fix the record's alarm
severity will be limited to INVALID\_ALARM.

### Fixes for Launchpad bugs

The following launchpad bugs have fixes included:

  - [lp: \#1786320](https://bugs.launchpad.net/epics-base/+bug/1786320),
    dbCa subscribes twice to ENUM
  - [lp: \#541221](https://bugs.launchpad.net/epics-base/+bug/541221),
    'assert (pca-\>pgetNative)' failed in ../dbCa.c
  - [lp: \#1747091](https://bugs.launchpad.net/epics-base/+bug/1747091),
    epicsTimeGetEvent() / generalTime bug
  - [lp: \#1743076](https://bugs.launchpad.net/epics-base/+bug/1743076),
    Segfault in ca\_attach\_context() during exits
  - [lp: \#1751380](https://bugs.launchpad.net/epics-base/+bug/1751380),
    Deadlock in ca\_clear\_subscription()
  - [lp: \#1597809](https://bugs.launchpad.net/epics-base/+bug/1597809),
    Setting NAME field in DB file may break IOC
  - [lp: \#1770292](https://bugs.launchpad.net/epics-base/+bug/1770292),
    get\_alarm\_double() inconsistent across record types
  - [lp: \#1771298](https://bugs.launchpad.net/epics-base/+bug/1771298),
    Conversion of NaN to integer relies on undefined behavior

### Updated VxWorks Timezone settings

Removed the settings for 2017; fixed the hour of the change for MET.

### Fixed camonitor server side relative timestamps bug

Initialize the first time-stamp from the first monitor, not the
client-side current time in this configuration.

### Build changes for MSVC

Windows builds using Visual Studio 2015 and later now use the `-FS`
compiler option to allow parallel builds to work properly.

We now give the `-FC` option to tell the compiler to print absolute
paths for source files in diagnostic messages.

### Extend maximum Posix epicsEventWaitWithTimeout() delay

The Posix implementation of epicsEventWaitWithTimeout() was limiting the
timeout delay to at most 60 minutes (3600.0 seconds). This has been
changed to 10 years; significantly longer maximum delays cause problems
on systems where `time_t` is still a signed 32-bit integer so cannot
represent absolute time-stamps after 2038-01-19. Our assumption is that
such 32-bit systems will have been retired before the year 2028, but
some additional tests have been added to the epicsTimeTest program to
detect and fail if this assumption is violated.

### New test-related make targets

This release adds several new make targets intended for use by
developers and Continuous Integration systems which simplify the task of
running the built-in self-test programs and viewing the results. Since
these targets are intended for limited use they can have requirements
for the build host which go beyond the standard minimum set needed to
build and run Base.

> #### `test-results` — Summarize test results
> 
> The new make target `test-results` will run the self-tests if
> necessary to generate a TAP file for each test, then summarizes the
> TAP output files in each test directory in turn, displaying the
> details of any failures. This step uses the program “prove” which
> comes with Perl, but also needs “cat” to be provided in the default
> search path so will not work on most Windows systems.
> 
> #### `junitfiles` — Convert test results to JUnit XML Format
> 
> The new make target `junitfiles` will run the self-tests if necessary
> and then convert the TAP output files into the more commonly-supported
> JUnit XML format. The program that performs this conversion needs the
> Perl module “`XML::Generator`” to have been installed.
> 
> #### `clean-tests` — Delete test result files
> 
> The new make target `clean-tests` removes any test result files from
> previous test runs. It cleans both TAP and JUnit XML files.

### Fix DNS related crash on exit

The attempt to fix DNS related delays for short lived CLI programs (eg.
caget) in lp:1527636 introduced a bug which cased these short lived
clients to crash on exit. This bug should now be fixed.

### Server bind issue on Windows

When a National Instruments network variables CA server is already
running on a Windows system and an IOC or PCAS server is started, the
IOC's attempt to bind a TCP socket to the CA server port number fails,
but Windows returns a different error status value than the IOC is
expecting in that circumstance (because the National Instruments code
requests exclusive use of that port, unlike the EPICS code) so the IOC
fails to start properly. The relevent EPICS bind() checks have now been
updated so the IOC will request that a dynamic port number be allocated
for this TCP socket instead when this happens.

### Checking Periodic Scan Rates

Code has been added to the IOC startup to better protect it against bad
periodic scan rates, including against locales where “`.`” is not
accepted as a decimal separator character. If the scan period in a
menuScan choice string cannot be parsed, the associated periodic scan
thread will no longer be started by the IOC and a warning message will
be displayed at iocInit time. The `scanppl` command will also flag the
faulty menuScan value.

## Changes made between 3.15.4 and 3.15.5

### dbStatic Library Speedup and Cleanup

Loading of database files has been optimized to avoid overproportionally
long loading times for large databases. As a part of this, the
alphabetical ordering of records instances (within a record type) has
been dropped. In the unexpected case that applications were relying on
the alphabetic order, setting `dbRecordsAbcSorted = 1` before loading
the databases will retain the old behavior.

The routine `dbRenameRecord()` has been removed, as it was intended to
be used by database configuration tools linked against a host side
version of the dbStatic library that is not being built anymore.

### Launchpad Bug-fixes

In addition to the more detailed change descriptions below, the
following Launchpad bugs have also been fixed in this release:

  - [\#1440186](https://bugs.launchpad.net/epics-base/+bug/1440186)
    Crash due to a too small buffer being provided in
    dbContextReadNotifyCache
  - [\#1479316](https://bugs.launchpad.net/epics-base/+bug/1479316) Some
    data races found using Helgrind
  - [\#1495833](https://bugs.launchpad.net/epics-base/+bug/1495833)
    biRecord prompt groups are nonsensical
  - [\#1606848](https://bugs.launchpad.net/epics-base/+bug/1606848)
    WSAIoctl SIO\_GET\_INTERFACE\_LIST failed in Windows

### Whole-Program Optimization for MS Visual Studio Targets

When using the Microsoft compilers a new build system variable is
provided that controls whether whole program optimization is used or
not. For static builds using Visual Studio 2010 this optimization must
be disabled. This is controlled in the files
configure/os/CONFIG\_SITE.Common.windows-x64-static and
configure/os/CONFIG\_SITE.Common.win32-x86-static by setting the
variable `OPT_WHOLE_PROGRAM = NO` to override the default value `YES`
that would otherwise be used.

Note that enabling this optimization slows down the build process. It is
not possible to selectively disable this optimization, when building a
particular module say; Microsoft's linker will restart itself
automatically with the `-LTCG` flag set and display a warning if it is
asked to link any object files that were compiled with the `-GL` flag.

### Add dynamic (variable length) array support to PCAS

Dynamic array sizing support was added to the IOC server (RSRV) in the
Base-3.14.12 release, but has not until now been supported in the
“Portable Channel Access Server” (PCAS). Channel Access server
applications using the PCAS may not need to be modified at all; if they
already push monitors with different gdd array lengths, those variable
sizes will be forwarded to any CA clients who have requested variable
length updates. The example CAS server application has been modified to
demonstrate this feature.

In implementing the above, the gdd method `gdd::put(const gdd *)` now
copies the full-sized array from the source gdd if the destination gdd
is of type array, has no allocated memory and a boundary size of 0.

### Additional epicsTime conversion

The EPICS timestamp library (epicsTime) inside libCom's OSI layer has
been extended by routines that convert from `struct tm` to the EPICS
internal `epicsTime` type, assuming UTC - i.e. without going through the
timezone mechanism. This solves issues with converting from the
structured type to the EPICS timestamp at driver level from multiple
threads at a high repetition rate, where the timezone mechanism was
blocking on file access.

### MinGW Cross-builds from Linux

The build configuration files that allow cross-building of the 32-bit
win32-x86-mingw cross-target have been adjusted to default to building
shared libraries (DLLs) as this is now supported by recent MinGW
compilers. The 64-bit windows-x64-mingw cross-target was already being
built that way by default. The configuration options to tell the minGW
cross-compiler to link programs with static versions of the compiler
support libraries have now been moved into the
CONFIG\_SITE.linux-x86.*target* files.

### General Time updates

The `iocInit` code now performs a sanity check of the current time
returned by the generalTime subsystem and will print a warning if the
wall-clock time returned has not been initialized yet. This is just a
warning message; when a time provider does synchonize the IOC will
subsequently pick up and use the correct time. This check code also
primes the registered event system provider if there is one so the
`epicsTimeGetEventInt()` routine will work on IOCs that ask for event
time within an interrupt service routine.

The osiClockTime provider's synchronization thread (which is only used
on some embedded targets) will now poll the other time providers at 1Hz
until the first time it manages to get a successful timestamp, after
which it will poll for updates every 60 seconds as before.

The routine `generalTimeGetExceptPriority()` was designed for use by
backup (lower priority) time providers like the osiClockTime provider
which do not have their own absolute time reference and rely on other
providers for an absolute time source. This routine no longer implements
the ratchet mechanism that prevented the time it returned from going
backwards. If the backup clock's tick-timer runs fast the
synchronization of the backup time provider would never allow it to be
corrected backwards when the ratchet was in place. The regular
`epicsTimeGetCurrent()` API still uses the ratchet mechanism, so this
change will not cause the IOC to see time going backwards.

### Microsoft Visual Studio builds

The build configuration files for builds using the Microsoft compilers
have been updated, although there should be no noticable difference at
most sites. One extra compiler warning is now being suppressed for C++
code, `C4344: behavior change: use of explicit template arguments
results in ...` which is gratuitous and was appearing frequently in
builds of the EPICS V4 modules.

Cross-builds of the windows-x64 target from a win32-x86 host have been
removed as they don't actually work within the context of a single
`make` run. Significant changes to the build configuration files would
be necessary for these kinds of cross-builds to work properly, which
could be done if someone needs them (email Andrew Johnson before working
on this, and see [this stack-overflow
answer](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/5807647/how-do-you-compile-32-bit-and-64-bit-applications-at-the-same-time-in-visual-stu)
for a starting point).

### Bazaar keywords such as 'Revision-Id' removed

In preparation for moving to git in place of the Bazaar revision control
system we have removed all the keywords from the Base source code.

### Linux systemd service file for CA Repeater

Building this version of Base on a Linux system creates a systemd
service file suitable for starting the Channel Access Repeater under
systemd. The file will be installed into the target bin directory, from
where it can be copied into the appropriate systemd location and
modified as necessary. Installation instructions are included as
comments in the file.

## Changes made between 3.15.3 and 3.15.4

### New string input device support "getenv"

A new "getenv" device support for both the stringin and lsi (long string
input) record types can be used to read the value of an environment
variable from the IOC at runtime. See base/db/softIocExit.db for sample
usage.

### Build rules and DELAY\_INSTALL\_LIBS

A new order-only prerequisite build rule has been added to ensure that
library files (and DLL stubs on Windows) get installed before linking
any executables, which resolves parallel build problems on high-powered
CPUs. There are some (rare) cases though where a Makefile has to build
an executable and run it to be able to compile code for a library built
by the same Makefile. With this new build rule GNUmake will complain
about a circular dependency and the build will probably fail in those
cases. To avoid this problem the failing Makefile should set
`DELAY_INSTALL_LIBS = YES` before including the `$(TOP)/configure/RULES`
file, disabling the new build rule.

### IOC environment variables and build parameters

The IOC now sets a number of environment variables at startup that
provide the version of EPICS Base it was built against
(EPICS\_VERSION\_...) and its build architecture (ARCH). In some cases
this allows a single iocBoot/ioc directory to be used to run the same
IOC on several different architectures without any changes.

There are also 3 new environment parameters (EPICS\_BUILD\_...)
available that C/C++ code can use to find out the target architecture,
OS class and compiler class it was built with. These may be useful when
writing interfaces to other languages.

### New implementation of promptgroup/gui\_group field property

The mechanism behind the "promptgroup()" field property inside a record
type definition has been changed. Instead of using a fixed set of
choices, the static database access library now collects the used gui
group names while parsing DBD information. Group names should start with
a two-digit number plus space-dash-space to allow proper sorting of
groups.

The include file `guigroup.h` that defined the fixed set of choices has
been deprecated. Instead, use the conversion functions between index
number and group string that have been added to dbStaticLib.

When a DBD file containing record-type descriptions is expanded, any
old-style `GUI_xxx` group names will be replaced by a new-style string
for use by the IOC. This permits an older record type to be used with
the 3.15.4 release, although eventually record types should be converted
by hand with better group names used.

### CA server configuration changes

RSRV now honors EPICS\_CAS\_INTF\_ADDR\_LIST and binds only to the
provided list of network interfaces. Name searches (UDP and TCP) on
other network interfaces are ignored. For example on a computer with
interfaces 10.5.1.1/24, 10.5.2.1/24, and 10.5.3.1/24, setting
"EPICS\_CAS\_INTF\_ADDR\_LIST='10.5.1.1 10.5.2.1'" will accept traffic
on the .1.1 and .2.1, but ignore from .3.1

RSRV now honors EPICS\_CAS\_IGNORE\_ADDR\_LIST and ignores UDP messages
received from addresses in this list.

Previously, CA servers (RSRV and PCAS) would build the beacon address
list using EPICS\_CA\_ADDR\_LIST if EPICS\_CAS\_BEACON\_ADDR\_LIST was
no set. This is no longer done. Sites depending on this should set both
envronment variables to the same value.

### IPv4 multicast for name search and beacons

libca, RSRV, and PCAS may now use IPv4 multicasting for UDP traffic
(name search and beacons). This is disabled by default. To enable
multicast address(s) must be listed in EPICS\_CA\_ADDR\_LIST for clients
and EPICS\_CAS\_INTF\_ADDR\_LIST for servers (IOCs should set both). For
example: "EPICS\_CAS\_INTF\_ADDR\_LIST='224.0.2.9'
EPICS\_CA\_ADDR\_LIST=224.0.2.9".

Please note that no IPv4 multicast address is officially assigned for
Channel Access by IANA. The example 224.0.2.9 is taken from the AD-HOC
Block I range.

### Moved `mlockall()` into its own epicsThread routine

Since EPICS Base 3.15.0.2 on Posix OSs the initialization of the
epicsThread subsystem has called `mlockall()` when the OS supports it
and thread priority scheduling is enabled. Doing so has caused problems
in third-party applications that call the CA client library, so the
functionality has been moved to a separate routine
`epicsThreadRealtimeLock()` which will be called by the IOC at iocInit
(unless disabled by setting the global variable `dbThreadRealtimeLock`
to zero).

### Added dbQuietMacroWarnings control

When loading database files, macros get expanded even on comment lines.
If a comment contains an undefined macro, the load still continues but
an error message gets printed. For this release the error message has
been changed to a warning, but even this warning can be made less
verbose by setting this new variable to a non-zero value before loading
the file, like this:

> 
> 
>     var dbQuietMacroWarnings 1      iocsh
>     dbQuietMacroWarnings=1          VxWorks

This was [Launchpad bug 541119](https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/541119).

## Changes from the 3.14 branch between 3.15.3 and 3.15.4

### NTP Time Provider adjusts to OS tick rate changes

Dirk Zimoch provided code that allows the NTP Time provider (used on
VxWorks and RTEMS only) to adapt to changes in the OS clock tick rate
after the provider has been initialized. Note that changing the tick
rate after iocInit() is not advisable, and that other software might
still misbehave if initialized before an OS tick rate change. This
change was back-ported from the 3.15 branch.

### Making IOC ca\_get operations atomic

When a CA client gets data from an IOC record using a compound data type
such as `DBR_TIME_DOUBLE` the value field is fetched from the database
in a separate call than the other metadata, without keeping the record
locked. This allows some other thread such as a periodic scan thread a
chance to interrupt the get operation and process the record in between.
CA monitors have always been atomic as long as the value data isn't a
string or an array, but this race condition in the CA get path has now
been fixed so the record will stay locked between the two fetch
operations.

This fixes [Launchpad bug
\#1581212](https://bugs.launchpad.net/epics-base/+bug/1581212), thanks
to Till Strauman and Dehong Zhang.

### New CONFIG\_SITE variable for running self-tests

The 'make runtests' and 'make tapfiles' build targets normally only run
the self-tests for the main `EPICS_HOST_ARCH` architecture. If the host
is able to execute self-test programs for other target architectures
that are being built by the host, such as when building a `-debug`
version of the host architecture for example, the names of those other
architectures can be added to the new `CROSS_COMPILER_RUNTEST_ARCHS`
variable in either the `configure/CONFIG_SITE` file or in an appropriate
`configure/os/CONFIG_SITE.<host>.Common` file to have the test programs
for those targets be run as well.

### Additional RELEASE file checks

An additional check has been added at build-time for the contents of the
configure/RELEASE file(s), which will mostly only affect users of the
Debian EPICS packages published by NSLS-2. Support modules may share an
install path, but all such modules must be listed adjacent to each other
in any RELEASE files that point to them. For example the following will
fail the new checks:

> 
> 
>     AUTOSAVE = /usr/lib/epics
>     ASYN = /home/mdavidsaver/asyn
>     EPICS_BASE = /usr/lib/epics

giving the compile-time error

> 
> 
>     This application's RELEASE file(s) define
>         EPICS_BASE = /usr/lib/epics
>     after but not adjacent to
>         AUTOSAVE = /usr/lib/epics
>     Module definitions that share paths must be grouped together.
>     Either remove a definition, or move it to a line immediately
>     above or below the other(s).
>     Any non-module definitions belong in configure/CONFIG_SITE.

In many cases such as the one above the order of the `AUTOSAVE` and
`ASYN` lines can be swapped to let the checks pass, but if the
`AUTOSAVE` module depended on `ASYN` and hence had to appear before it
in the list this error indicates that `AUTOSAVE` should also be built in
its own private area; a shared copy would likely be incompatible with
the version of `ASYN` built in the home directory.

### String field buffer overflows

Two buffer overflow bugs that can crash the IOC have been fixed, caused
by initializing a string field with a value larger than the field size
([Launchpad bug \#1563191](https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/1563191)).

### Fixed stack corruption bug in epicsThread C++ API

The C++ interface to the epicsThread API could corrupt the stack on
thread exit in some rare circumstances, usually at program exit. This
bug has been fixed ([Launchpad bug
\#1558206](https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/1558206)).

### RTEMS NTP Support Issue

On RTEMS the NTP Time Provider could in some circumstances get out of
sync with the server because the osdNTPGet() code wasn't clearing its
input socket before sending out a new request. This ([Launchpad
bug 1549908](https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/1549908)) has now been
fixed.

### CALC engine bitwise operator fixes

The bitwise operators in the CALC engine have been modified to work
properly with values that have bit 31 (0x80000000) set. This
modification involved back-porting some earlier changes from the 3.15
branch, and fixes [Launchpad bug
\#1514520](https://code.launchpad.net/bugs/1514520).

### Fix `ipAddrToAsciiAsync()`: Don't try to join the daemon thread

On process exit, don't try to stop the worker thread that makes DNS
lookups asynchronous. Previously this would wait for any lookups still
in progress, delaying the exit unnecessarily. This was most obvious with
catools (eg. cainfo).
[lp:1527636](https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/1527636)

### Fix `epicsTime_localtime()` on Windows

Simpler versions of the epicsTime\_gmtime() and epicsTime\_localtime()
routines have been included in the Windows implementations, and a new
test program added. The original versions do not report DST status
properly. Fixes [Launchpad
bug 1528284](https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/1528284).

## Changes made between 3.15.2 and 3.15.3

### Make the NTP Time provider optional on VxWorks

Recent versions of VxWorks (sometime after VxWorks 6) provide facilities
for automatically synchronizing the OS clock time with an NTP server.
The EPICS time system used to assume that it had to provide time
synchronization on VxWorks, but now it tests for the existance of either
of the two OS synchronization threads before starting the NTP time
provider. It is still possible to force the NTP provider to be started
even if the OS synchronization is running by defining the environment
variable `EPICS_TS_FORCE_NTPTIME` in the startup script before loading
the IOC's .munch file. Forcing may be necessary if the VxWorks image is
not correctly configured with the IP address of a local NTP server.

### Assembling files from numbered snippets

A tool has been added that assembles file snippets specified on the
command line into a single output file, with sorting and
replacing/adding of snippets done based on their file names. The build
system integration requires the output file to be specified setting
COMMON\_ASSEMBLIES (arch independent) or ASSEMBLIES (created by arch),
then defining the snippets for each assembly setting \*\_SNIPPETS
(explicitly) or \*\_PATTERN (searched relative to all source
directories).

### Clean up after GNU readline()

If EPICS Base is built with readline support, any IOC that calls
epicsExit() from a thread other than the main thread is likely to leave
the user's terminal in a weird state, requiring the user to run
something like 'stty sane' to clean it up. This release patches the
readline support code to clean up automatically by registering an
epicsAtExit() routine.

### Removed the last vestiges of RSET::get\_value()

The IOC has not called the get\_value() routine in the RSET for a very
long time, but there was still one implementation left in the event
record support code, and a structure definition for one of the original
arguments to that routine was defined in recGbl.h. Both of these have
now been removed.

## Changes made between 3.15.1 and 3.15.2

### Raised limit on link field length in database files

The length of INP/OUT link fields in database files was limited to 79
chars by an internal buffer size in the db file parser. This limitation
will go away completely in 3.16, and has been statically raised to 255
chars for the 3.15 series.

### aoRecord raw conversion overflows

The ao record type now checks converted raw values and limits them to
the 32-bit integer range before writing them to the RVAL field.
Previously value overflows relied on Undefined Behaviour which could
give different results on different platforms. The ROFF fields of the ao
and ai record types are now DBF\_ULONG to allow an ROFF setting of
0x80000000 to work properly.

### Changes to &lt;top\>/cfg/\* files

The order in which cfg/CONFIG\* and cfg/RULES\* files are included from
support applications listed in the configure/RELEASE\* files has been
changed. Previously these files were included in the order in which the
top areas are listed in the RELEASE file, but it makes more sense to
load them in reverse order since later entries override earlier ones in
Makefiles but the release file order is supposed to allow earlier
entries to take precedence over later ones. The same change has been
made to the inclusion of the &lt;top\>/configure/RULES\_BUILD files.

Two new file types can also be provided in a module's cfg directory.
Files named TOP\_RULES\* will be included by the top-level Makefile of
other modules that refer to this module; files name DIR\_RULES\* will be
included by all Makefiles that merely descend into lower-level
directories. The cfg/RULES\* files are only included when make is
building code inside the O.&lt;arch\> directories.

The new cfg/DIR\_RULES\* file inclusion was designed to permit new
recursive make actions to be implemented by appending the name of the
new action to the ACTIONS variable. There must be a matching rule in one
of the cfg/RULES\* files when doing this. Similar rules may also be
defined in the cfg/TOP\_RULES\* and/or cfg/DIR\_RULES\* files, but these
should only state prerequisites and not directly provide commands to be
executed.

### Build rules for RTEMS GESYS modules

RTEMS target builds can now be configured to make GESYS modules by
changing the `USE_GESYS=NO` setting in the file
configure/os/CONFIG\_SITE.Common.RTEMS to `YES`.

### Added Make variables for command-line use

The following variables are now used during the build process, reserved
for setting on the command-line only (Makefiles should continue to use
the `USR_` equivalents):

  - CMD\_INCLUDES
  - CMD\_CPPFLAGS
  - CMD\_CFLAGS
  - CMD\_CXXFLAGS
  - CMD\_LDFLAGS
  - CMD\_DBFLAGS
  - CMD\_DBDFLAGS
  - CMD\_REGRDDFLAGS
  - CMD\_ARFLAGS

For example:

> 
> 
>     make CMD_INCLUDES=/opt/local/include CMD_LDFLAGS=-L/opt/local/lib

### Enhanced API for asTrapWrite listeners

External software such as the CA Put Logging module that registers a
listener with the asTrapWrite subsystem was not previously given access
to the actual data being sent by the CA client. In most cases this was
not a problem as the listener can look at the field being modified both
before and after the operation, but if the put processes the record
which immediately overwrites the new value, the client's value cannot be
observed.

This release adds three fields to the asTrapWriteMessage structure that
is passed to the listener routines. These new fields provide the CA data
type, the number of array elements, and a pointer to the source data
buffer. This change is completely backwards compatible with listener
code written against the original API. The new API can be detected at
compile-time as follows:

> 
> 
>     #include "asLib.h"
>     
>     /* ... */
>     
>     #ifdef asTrapWriteWithData
>         /* Enhanced API */
>     #endif

### Use of PATH\_FILTER in Makefiles deprecated

The PATH\_FILTER variable was being called to convert forward shashes
`/` in file paths into pairs of backward slashes `\\` on Windows
architectures. This has never been strictly necessary, and was added
about 10 years ago to get around some short-comings in Windows tools at
the time. All uses of PATH\_FILTER in Base have now been removed; the
definition is still present, but will result in a warning being printed
if it is ever used.

### Using msi for dependencies

To reduce confusion the msi program has been modified to allow the
generation of dependency rules by adding support for a `-D` option, and
changing the commands in RULES.Db to use this option instead of the
mkmf.pl script. The new build rules will not work with old versions of
the msi program, so the command variable name used in the rules has been
changed from MSI to MSI3\_15. Sites that use a modified version of msi
must provide support for both the `-D` and `-o outfile` options, and
should then point the MSI3\_15 variable in their applications'
CONFIG\_SITE files to that updated executable.

## Changes made between 3.15.0.2 and 3.15.1

### epicsStrnEscapedFromRaw() and epicsStrnRawFromEscaped()

These routines have been rewritten; the previous implementations did not
always behave exactly as specified.

### Shared Library Versions

On architectures that can support it, the shared library version number
for libraries provided with Base has had the third component of the
EPICS version number added to it, thus libCom.so.3.15.1 instead of
libCom.so.3.15. Windows can only support two components to its internal
product version number, and the Darwin bug that external shared
libraries were being built using the EPICS version number has been
fixed.

### Hooking into dbLoadRecords

A function pointer hook has been added to the dbLoadRecords() routine,
to allow external modules such as autosave to be notified when new
records have been loaded during IOC initialization. The hook is called
dbLoadRecordsHook and follows the model of the recGblAlarmHook pointer
in that modules that wish to use it must save the current value of the
pointer before installing their own function pointer, and must call the
original function from their own routine.

The hook is activiated from the dbLoadRecords() routine and gets called
only after a database instance file has been read in without error. Note
that the dbLoadTemplates() routine directly calls dbLoadRecords() so
this hook also provides information about instantiated database
templates. It is still possible to load record instances using
dbLoadDatabase() though, and doing this will not result in the hook
routines being called.

Code to use this hook should look something like this:

> 
> 
>     #include "dbAccessDefs.h"
>     
>     static DB_LOAD_RECORDS_HOOK_ROUTINE previousHook;
>     
>     static void myRoutine(const char* file, const char* subs) {
>         if (previousHook)
>             previousHook(file, subs);
>     
>         /* Do whatever ... */
>     }
>     
>     void myInit(void) {
>         static int done = 0;
>     
>         if (!done) {
>             previousHook = dbLoadRecordsHook;
>             dbLoadRecordsHook = myRoutine;
>             done = 1;
>         }
>     }

As with many other parts of the static database access library there is
no mutex to protect the function pointer. Initialization is expected to
take place in the context of the IOC's main thread, from either a static
C++ constructor or an EPICS registrar routine.

## Changes made between 3.15.0.1 and 3.15.0.2

### New iocshLoad command

A new command `iocshLoad` has been added to iocsh which executes a named
iocsh script and can also set one or more shell macro variables at the
same time, the values of which will be forgotten immediately after the
named script finishes executing. The following example shows the syntax:

> 
> 
>     iocshLoad "serial.cmd", "DEV=/dev/ttyS0,PORT=com1,TYPE=RS485"
>     iocshLoad "radmon.cmd", "PORT=com1,ADDR=0"

### Support routines for 64-bit integers

The libCom library now provides support for 64-bit integer types on all
supported architectures. The epicsTypes.h header file defines epicsInt64
and epicsUInt64 type definitions for both C and C++ code. The
epicsStdlib.h header also declares the following for parsing strings
into the relevent sized integer variables: Functions epicsParseLLong(),
epicsParseULLong() with related macros epicsScanLLong() and
epicsScanULLong(), and the functions epicsParseInt64() and
epicsParseUInt64(). Use the first two functions and the macros for long
long and unsigned long long integer types, and the last two functions
for the epicsInt64 and epicsUInt64 types. Note that the latter can map
to the types long and unsigned long on some 64-bit architectures such as
linux-x86\_64, not to the two long long types.

This version does not provide the ability to define 64-bit record
fields, the use of the 64-bit types in the IOC database will come in a
later release of EPICS Base.

### Full support for loadable support modules

Apparently later versions of Base 3.14 permitted support modules to be
loaded from a shared library at runtime without the IOC having been
linked against that shared library; the registerRecordDeviceDriver.pl
program would accept a partial DBD file containing just the entries
needed for the library and generate the appropriate registration code.
In 3.15 however the registerRecordDeviceDriver.pl program was replaced
by one using the new DBD file parser, and in this a device support entry
would only be accepted after first loading the record type that it
depended on.

The parser has been modified to accept device entries without having
seen the record type first, although a warning is given when that
happens. To remove the warning the DBD file can provide a record type
declaration instead (no fields can be defined, so the braces must be
empty), before the device() entry. The result will generate the correct
registration code for the device entry without including anything for
any merely declared record types. The generated code can be linked into
a shared library and loaded by an IOC at runtime using dlload.

### Parallel callback threads

The general purpose callback facility can run multiple parallel callback
threads per priority level. This makes better use of SMP architectures
(e.g. processors with multiple cores), as callback work - which includes
second stage processing of records with asynchronuous device support and
I/O scanned processing - can be distributed over the available CPUs.

Note that by using parallel callback threads the order of scan callback
requests in the queue is not retained. If a device support needs to be
informed when scanIoRequest processing has finished, it should use the
new scanIoSetComplete() feature to add a user function that will be
called after the scanIoRequest record processing has finished.

Parallel callback threads have to be explicitly configured, by default
the IOC keeps the old behavior of running one callback thread per
priority.

### Merge MMIO API from devLib2

Added calls to handle 8, 16, and 32 bit Memory Mapped I/O reads and
writes. The calls added include `X_iowriteY()` and `X_ioreadY()` where
`X` is `nat` (native), `be` or `le`, and `Y` is `16` or `32`. Also added
are `ioread8()` and `iowrite8()`.

### Added optional dbServer API to database

A server layer that sits on top of the IOC database may now register
itself as such by calling `dbRegisterServer()` and providing optional
routines that other components can use. The initial purpose of this API
allows the Trace Processing implementation in `dbProcess()` to identify
a client that causes a record to process when TPRO is set.

To support the client idenfication, the server provides a routine that
returns that identity string when called by one of its own processing
threads.

### Concatenated database definition files

A series of database definition (dbd) files can now be concatenated
during the build process into a newly-created dbd file with result being
installed into $(INSTALL\_LOCATION)/dbd without expanding it.

The following lines in an EPICS Makefile will create a file name.dbd in
the O.Common build directory containing the contents of file1.dbd
followed by file2.dbd then file3.dbd. The new file will then be
installed into $(INSTALL\_LOCATION)/dbd without expanding any of its
include statements.

> 
> 
>     DBDCAT += name.dbd
>     name_DBD += file1.dbd file2.dbd file3.dbd

The source files file1.dbd, file2.dbd and file3.dbd may be created by
the current Makefile, be located in the parent directory or any other
directory in the SRC\_DIRS list, be specified by their full pathname,
exist in the install dbd directory, or be found in any dbd directory
linked from the application's RELEASE files.

### Posix: Drop SCHED\_FIFO before exec() in child process

If Base is compiled with `USE_POSIX_THREAD_PRIORITY_SCHEDULING = YES` in
configure/CONFIG\_SITE or related files, the Posix implementation of the
libCom `osiSpawnDetachedProcess()` routine will switch the child process
to use the normal SCHED\_OTHER (non real-time) scheduler before
executing the named executable program. If it needs to use the real-time
scheduler the new program can request that for itself.

### Posix: Lock all memory when running with FIFO scheduler

On Posix systems, an IOC application's ability to meet timing deadlines
is often dependent on its ability to lock part or all of the process's
virtual address space into RAM, preventing that memory from being paged
to the swap area. This change will attempt to lock the process's virtual
address space into RAM if the process has the ability to run threads
with different priorities. If unsuccessful, it prints an message to
stderr and continues.

On Linux, one can grant a process the ability to run threads with
different priorities by using the command `ulimit -r unlimited`. To use
the FIFO scheduler for an IOC, use a command like this:

> 
> 
>     chrt -f 1 softIoc -d test.db

On Linux, one can grant a process the ability to lock itself into memory
using the command `ulimit -l unlimited`. These limits can also be
configured on a per user/per group basis by changing
/etc/security/limits.conf or its equivalent.

A child process created via fork() normally inherits its parent's
resource limits, so a child of a real-time soft-IOC will get its
parent's real-time priority and memlock limits. The memory locks
themselves however are not inherited by child processes.

### Implement EPICS\_CAS\_INTF\_ADDR\_LIST in rsrv

The IOC server can now bind to a single IP address (and optional port
number) read from the standard environment parameter
EPICS\_CAS\_INTF\_ADDR\_LIST. Additional addresses included in that
parameter after the first will be ignored and a warning message
displayed at iocInit time.

### alarmString.h deprecated again

The string arrays that provide string versions of the alarm status and
severity values have been moved into libCom and the header file that
used to instanciate them is no longer required, although a copy is still
provided for backwards compatibility reasons. Only the alarm.h header
needs to be included now to declare the epicsAlarmSeverityStrings and
epicsAlarmConditionStrings arrays.

### General purpose thread pool

A general purpose threaded work queue API epicsThreadPool is added.
Multiple pools can be created with controlable priority and number of
worker threads. Lazy worker startup is supported.

### Database field setting updates

A database (.db) file loaded by an IOC does not have to repeat the
record type of a record that has already been loaded. It may replace the
first parameter of the `record(type, name)` statement with an asterisk
character inside double-quotes, `"*"` instead. Thus the following is a
legal database file:

> 
> 
>     record(ao, "ao1") {}
>     record("*", "ao1") {
>         field(VAL, 10)
>     }

Note that database configuration tools will not be expected to have to
understand this syntax, which is provided for scripted and hand-coded
database and template instantiation only. Setting the IOC's
`dbRecordsOnceOnly` flag also makes this syntax illegal, since its
purpose is to prevent multiply-defined records from being collapsed into
a single instance.

### Added echo command to iocsh

The single argument string may contain escaped characters, which will be
translated to their raw form before being printed (enclose the string in
quotes to avoid double-translation). A newline is always appended to the
output, and output stream redirection is supported.

### Added macro EPICS\_UNUSED to compilerDependencies.h

To prevent the compiler from warning about a known-unused variable, mark
it with the macro EPICS\_UNUSED. On gcc and clang this will expand to
`__attribute__((unused))` to prevent the warning.

### User specified db substitution file suffix

Per Dirk Zimoch's suggestion, a user specified db substitution file
suffix is now allowed by setting the variable SUBST\_SUFFIX in a
configuration directory CONFIG\_SITE file or in a Makefile before the
include $(TOP)/configure/RULES line. The default for SUBST\_SUFFIX is
`.substitutions`

### NTP Time Provider adjusts to OS tick rate changes

Dirk Zimoch provided code that allows the NTP Time provider (used on
VxWorks and RTEMS only) to adapt to changes in the OS clock tick rate
after the provider has been initialized. Note that changing the tick
rate after iocInit() is not advisable, and that other software might
still misbehave if initialized before an OS tick rate change.

### Added newEpicsMutex macro

Internal C++ uses of `new epicsMutex()` have been replaced with a new
macro which calls a new constructor, passing it the file name and line
number of the mutex creation code. C code that creates mutexes has been
using a similar macro for a long time, but there was no equivalent
constructor for the C++ wrapper class, so identifying a specific mutex
was much harder to do.

### Post DBE\_PROPERTY events automatically

A new record field attribute "prop(YES)" has been added to identify
fields holding meta-data. External changes to these fields will cause a
CA monitor event to be sent to all record subscribers who have asked for
DBE\_PROPERTY updates. Meta-data fields have been marked for all Base
record types.

### errlogRemoveListener() routine changed

Code that calls `errlogRemoveListener(myfunc)` must be modified to use
the new, safer routine `errlogRemoveListeners(myfunc, &pvt)` instead.
The replacement routine takes a second argument which must be the same
private pointer that was passed to `errlogAddListener()` when adding
that listener. It also deletes all matching listeners (hence the new
plural name) and returns how many were actually deleted, whereas the
previous routine only removed the first listener that matched.

### Simplified generation of .dbd files

The Perl script `makeIncludeDbd.pl` has been removed and the rules that
created an intermediate `xxxInclude.dbd` file from the Makefile variable
`xxx_DBD` have been modified to generate the target `xxx.dbd` file
directly. This should simplify applications that might have had to
provide dependency rules for the intermediate files in 3.15.
Applications which provide their own `xxxInclude.dbd` source file will
continue to have it expanded as before.

### New Undefined Severity field UDFS

A new field has been added to dbCommon which configures the alarm
severity associated with the record being undefined (when UDF=TRUE). The
default value is INVALID so old databases will not be affected, but now
individual records can be configured to have a lower severity or even no
alarm when undefined. Be careful when changing this on applications
where the IVOA field of output records is used, IVOA still requires an
INVALID severity to trigger value replacement.

### New build target “tapfiles”

This new make target runs the same tests as the “runtests” target, but
instead of summarizing or displaying the output for each test script it
creates a “.tap” file inside the architecture build directory which
contains the detailed test output. The output file can be parsed by
continuous integration packages such as
[Jenkins](http://www.jenkins-ci.org/) to show the test results.

### Array field double-buffering

Array data can now be moved, without copying, into and out of the VAL
field of the waveform, aai, and aao record types by replacing the
pointer in BPTR. The basic rules which device support must follow are:

1.  BPTR, and the memory it is currently pointing to, can only be
    accessed while the record is locked.
2.  NELM may not be changed; NORD should be updated whenever the number
    of valid data elements changes.
3.  When BPTR is replaced it must always point to a block of memory
    large enough to hold the maximum number of elements, as given by the
    NELM and FTVL fields.

### Spin-locks API added

The new header file epicsSpin.h adds a portable spin-locks API which is
intended for locking very short sections of code (typically one or two
lines of C or C++) to provide a critical section that protects against
race conditions. On Posix platforms this uses the pthread\_spinlock\_t
type if it's available and the build is not configured to use Posix
thread priorities, but otherwise it falls back to a pthread\_mutex\_t.
On the UP VxWorks and RTEMS platforms the implementations lock out CPU
interrupts and disable task preemption while a spin-lock is held. The
default implementation (used when no other implementation is provided)
uses an epicsMutex. Spin-locks may not be taken recursively, and the
code inside the critical section should be short and deterministic.

### Improvements to aToIPAddr()

The libCom routine aToIPAddr() and the vxWorks implementation of the
associated hostToIPAddr() function have been modified to be able to look
up hostnames that begin with one or more digits. The
epicsSockResolveTest program was added to check this functionality.

### mbboDirect and mbbiDirect records

These record types have undergone some significant rework, and will
behave slightly differently than they did in their 3.14 versions. The
externally visible changes are as follows:

##### mbbiDirect

  - If the MASK field is set in a database file, it will not be
    over-written when the record is initialized. This allows
    non-contiguous masks to be set, although only the device support
    actually uses the MASK field.
  - If process() finds the UDF field to be set, the record will raise a
    UDF/INVALID alarm.

##### mbboDirect

  - If the MASK field is set in a database file, it will not be
    over-written when the record is initialized. This allows
    non-contiguous masks to be set, although only the device support
    actually uses the MASK field.
  - After the device support's init\_record() routine returns during
    record initialization, if OMSL is “supervisory” and UDF is clear the
    fields B0-BF will be set from the current VAL field.
  - When a put to the OMSL field sets it to “supervisory”, the fields
    B0-BF will be set from the current VAL field. This did not used to
    happen, the individual bit fields were previously never modified by
    the record. Note that this change may require some databases to be
    modified, if they were designed to take advantage of the previous
    behavior.

### Redirection of the errlog console stream

A new routine has been added to the errlog facility which allows the
console error message stream to be redirected from stderr to some other
already open file stream:

> 
> 
>     int errlogSetConsole(FILE *stream);

The stream argument must be a FILE\* pointer as returned by fopen() that
is open for output. If NULL is passed in, the errlog thread's stderr
output stream will be used instead. Note that messages to the console
can be disabled and re-enabled using the eltc routine which is also an
iocsh command, but there is no iocsh command currently provided for
calling errlogSetConsole.

### Add cleanup subroutine to aSub record

An aSub routine may set the CADR field with a function pointer which
will be run before a new routine in the event that a change to the SNAM
field changes the record's process subroutine.

This can be used to free any resources the routine needs to allocate. It
can also be used to determine if this is the first time this routine has
been called by this record instance. The CADR field is set to NULL
immediately after the routine it points to is called.

Example:

> 
> 
>     void cleanup(aSubRecord* prec) {
>         free(prec->dpvt);
>         prec->dpvt = NULL;
>     }
>     
>     long myAsubRoutine(aSubRecord* prec) {
>         if (!prec->cadr) {
>             /* check types of inputs and outputs */
>             if (prec->ftva != menuFtypeDOUBLE)
>                 return 1; /* oops */
>     
>             dpvt = malloc(42);
>             prec->cadr = &cleanup;
>         }
>     
>         /* normal processing */
>     }
>     epicsRegisterFunction(myAsubRoutine);

### Sequence record enhancements

The sequence record type now has 16 link groups numbered 0 through 9 and
A through F, instead of the previous 10 groups numbered 1 through 9 and
A. The changes to this record are directly equivalent to those described
below for the fanout record. The fields OFFS and SHFT have been added
and operate on the SELN value exactly the same way. The result is
backwards compatible with the 3.14 version of the sequence record as
long as none of the new fields are modified and the application does not
rely on the SOFT/INVALID alarm that was generated when the selection
number exceeded 10. The record also now posts monitors on the SELN field
at the end of the sequence if its value changed when read through the
SELL link.

### Fanout record enhancements

The fanout record type now has 16 output links LNK0-LNK9 and LNKA-LNKF,
plus two additional fields which make the result backwards compatible
with 3.14 databases, but also allow the link selection to be shifted
without having to process the SELN value through a calc or calcout
record first.

Previously there was no LNK0 field, so when SELM is “Mask” bit 0 of SELN
controls whether the LNK1 link field was activated; bit 1 controls LNK2
and so on. When SELM is “Specified” and SELN is zero no output link
would be activated at all; LNK1 gets activated when SELN is 1 and so on.
Only 6 links were provided, LNK1 through LNK6. The updated record type
maintains the original behavior when the new fields are not configured,
except that the SOFT/INVALID alarm is not generated when SELN is 7
through 15.

The update involved adding a LNK0 field, as well as fields LNK7 through
LNK9 and LNKA through LNKF. To add flexibility and maintain backwards
compatibility, two additional fields have been added:

  - **OFFS**  
    This field holds a signed offset which is added to SELN to select
    which link to activate when SELM is “Specified”. If the resulting
    value is outside the range 0 .. 15 the record will go into a
    SOFT/INVALID alarm state. The default value of OFFS is zero, so if
    it is not explicitly set and SELN is 1 the LNK1 link will be
    activated.
  - **SHFT**  
    When SELM is “Mask” the signed field SHFT is used to shift the SELN
    value by SHFT bits (positive means right-wards, values outside the
    range -15 .. 15 will result in a SOFT/INVALID alarm), before using
    the resulting bit-pattern to control which links to activate. The
    default value is -1, so if SHFT is not explicitly set bit 0 of SELN
    will be used to control whether LNK1 gets activated.

The record also now posts monitors on the SELN field if it changes as a
result of record processing (i.e. when read through the SELL link).

### Deleted Java build rules

Java has its own build systems now, so we've deleted the rules and
associated variables from Base, although they might get added to the
Extensions build rules for a while in case anyone still needs them.

## Changes made between 3.14.x and 3.15.0.1

### Application clean rules

The `clean` Makefile target has changed between a single-colon rule and
a double-colon rule more than once in the life of the EPICS build rules,
and it just changed back to a single-colon rule, but now we recommend
that applications that wish to provide a Makefile that is backwards
compatible with the 3.14 build rules use the construct shown below. The
3.15 rules now support a variable called `CLEANS` to which a Makefile
can add a list of files to be deleted when the user does a `make clean`
like this:

> 
> 
>     CLEANS += &lt;list of files to be cleaned>
>     
>     ifndef BASE_3_15
>     clean::
>         $(RM) $(CLEANS)
>     endif

The conditional rule provides compatibility for use with the 3.14 build
system.

### MSI included with Base

An enhanced version of the Macro Substitution and Include program “msi”
has been included with Base. Both this new version of msi and the IOC's
`dbLoadTemplates` command now support setting global macros in
substitution files, and `dbLoadTemplates` can now take a list of global
macro settings as the second argument on its command line. The
substitution file syntax is documented in the Application Developers
Guide.

### Cross-builds targeting win32-x86-mingw

Some Linux distributions now package the MinGW cross-compiler which
makes it possible to cross-build the win32-x86-mingw target from a
linux-x86 host. Build configuration files for this combination are now
included; adjust the settings in
configure/os/CONFIG\_SITE.linux-x86.win32-x86-mingw and add
win32-x86-mingw to the CROSS\_COMPILER\_TARGET\_ARCHS variable in
configure/CONFIG\_SITE or in configure/os/CONFIG\_SITE.linux-x86.Common.

### Architecture win32-x86-cygwin Removed

The ability to compile non-cygwin binaries using the Cygwin build tools
is no longer supported by current versions of Cygwin, so this
architecture has been removed. Use the MinWG tools and the
win32-x86-mingw architecture instead.

### RTEMS and VxWorks Test Harnesses

The original libCom test harness has been renamed `libComTestHarness`,
and two additional test harnesses have been created `dbTestHarness` and
`filterTestHarness` which are all built for RTEMS and vxWorks targets.
The new ones include tests in src/ioc/db/test and src/std/filters/test.

Running the new tests requires additional .db and .dbd files to be
loaded at runtime, which can be found in the relevant source directory
or its O.Common subdirectory. If the target can access the Base source
tree directly it may be simplest to cd to the relevant source directory
before running the test. If not, the files needed are listed in the
generated 'testspec' file found in the associated build (O.*arch*)
directory.

For RTEMS users the current directory is determined in a BSP specific
way. See rtems\_init.c and setBootConfigFromNVRAM.c in src/libCom/RTEMS.

### New API to hook into thread creation

A hook API has been added allowing user-supplied functions to be called
whenever a thread starts. The calls are made from the thread's context,
and can be used to control additional thread properties not handled
inside EPICS base, e.g. setting the scheduling policy or CPU affinity
(on SMP systems).

The API also supports a mapping operation, calling a user-supplied
function for every thread that is currently running.

### New scan rate units

Scan rates defined in the menuScan.dbd file may now be specified in
seconds, minutes, hours or Hertz, and plural time units will also be
accepted (seconds are used if no unit is mentioned in the choice
string). At `iocInit` each scan rate is compared with the OS's clock
tick and a warning printed if the rate is too fast or likely to be more
than 10% different to the requested rate. For example the rates given
below are all valid, although non-standard (the default menuScan choices
that come with Base have not been changed):

> 
> 
>     menu(menuScan) {
>         choice(menuScanPassive,     "Passive")
>         choice(menuScanEvent,       "Event")
>         choice(menuScanI_O_Intr,    "I/O Intr")
>         choice(menuScan1_hour,      "1 hour")
>         choice(menuScan0_5_hours, "0.5 hours")
>         choice(menuScan15_minutes, "15 minutes")
>         choice(menuScan5_minutes,   "5 minutes")
>         choice(menuScan1_minute,    "1 minute")
>         choice(menuScan10_seconds, "10 seconds")
>         choice(menuScan5_seconds,   "5 seconds")
>         choice(menuScan2_seconds,   "2 seconds")
>         choice(menuScan1_second,    "1 second")
>         choice(menuScan2_Hertz,     "2 Hertz")
>         choice(menuScan5_Hertz,     "5 Hertz")
>         choice(menuScan10_Hertz,   "10 Hz")
>     }

### Alarm filtering added to input record types

The record types ai, calc, longin and mbbi have a new alarm filter added
to them. This provides a low-pass filter that can be used to delay the
reporting of alarms caused by the input level passing the HIGH, HIHI,
LOW or LOLO values. The filter is controlled with a new AFTC field that
sets the filter's time constant. The default value for this field is
zero, which keeps the record's original alarm behaviour.

The record must be scanned often enough for the filtering action to work
effectively and the alarm severity can only change when the record is
processed, but that processing does not have to be regular; the filter
uses the time since the record last processed in its calculation.
Setting AFTC to a positive number of seconds will delay the record going
into or out of a minor alarm severity or from minor to major severity
until the input signal has been in that range for that number of
seconds.

### Post events on Waveform record's NORD field

When the record type or device support modify the NORD field of a
waveform record, the record support code now posts DBE\_VALUE and
DBE\_LOG events for that field, signalling the array length change to
any client monitoring the NORD field.

### Attributes of Non-VAL Fields

Non-VAL fields now report meaningful information for precision, units,
graphic limits, control limits, and alarm limits instead of simply using
PREC, EGU, HOPR, LOPR, DRVL, DRVH, HIHI, HIGH, LOW, and LOLO. All delay
fields have a default precision of 2 digits, units "s" and control
limits of 0 to 100,000 seconds (these precision and limit values can be
changed for each record type as a whole at runtime by updating a
registered global variable). Input fields like A-L of the calc record
read their metadata from the corresponding INPn link if possible.

#### epicsStdioRedirect.h merged into epicsStdio.h

The definitions from the header file epicsStdioRedirect.h have been
moved into epicsStdio.h so all calls to printf(), puts() and putchar()
in files that include that OSI header will now be subject to stdout
redirection. In past releases (3.14.7 and later) it was necessary to
request the redirection support by including the epicsStdioRedirect.h
header file. The header file is still provided, but now it just includes
epicsStdio.h.

#### Named Soft Events

Soft events can now be given meaningful names instead of just using the
numbers 1-255. The EVNT field is now a DBF\_STRING. The `post_event()`
API is now deprecated but still works. It should be replaced by code
that in advance looks up the `EVNTPVT` event handle associated with the
named event by calling `eventNameToHandle(char *)`, and when that event
occurs passes that handle to the new `postEvent(EVNTPVT)` routine (which
may be called from interrupt level). A new iocsh command `postEvent
name` will trigger a named event from the command-line or a startup
script (on vxWorks the expression `postEvent(eventNameToHandle("name"))`
must be used instead though).

#### Parallel Builds

As EPICS sites get computers with more CPUs they report additional bugs
in our parallel build rules. Various issues have been fixed by
separating out the build rules that generate dependency (.d) files,
ensuring that they are constructed at the appropriate time in the build.

These rule changes can cause additional warning messages to appear when
building support modules. Where an application provides its own Makefile
rules it may now have to add rules to construct an associated dependency
file. In many cases though the change needed is just to replace a
dependency for a `target$(OBJ)` with the `target$(DEP)` so this

``` 
    myLib$(OBJ): myLib_lex.c
```

becomes

``` 
    myLib$(DEP): myLib_lex.c
```

To debug build issues assocated with dependency files, use the command
`make --debug=m` which tells GNUmake to display information about what
it is doing during the first pass when it updates its makefiles.

### Removed tsDefs.h

The deprecated tsDefs API was provided for 3.13 compatibility only, and
has now been removed. Convert any remaining code that used it to call
the epicsTime API instead.

### Changes to epicsVersion.h

The two macros `EPICS_UPDATE_LEVEL` and `EPICS_CVS_SNAPSHOT` have been
deleted from the epicsVersion.h file; they were deprecated in R3.14 and
can be replaced with `EPICS_PATCH_LEVEL` and `EPICS_DEV_SNAPSHOT`
respectively.

A new pair of macros has been added to make version number comparisons
easier. Code that will not work with a version of Base before 3.15.0 can
now be written like this to prevent it from compiling:

    #if defined(VERSION_INT) && EPICS_VERSION_INT < VERSION_INT(3,15,0,0)
    #  error EPICS Base R3.15.0 or later is required
    #endif

### Added support for iocLogPrefix

Added a `iocLogPrefix` command to `iocsh`. This adds a prefix to all
messages from this IOC (or other log client) as they get sent to the
iocLogServer. This lets sites use the "fac=<*facility*>" syntax for
displaying the facility, process name etc. in log viewers like the
`cmlogviewer`.

### Reworked the epicsEvent C & C++ APIs

  - Renamed the enum epicsEventWaitStatus to epicsEventStatus
  - Defined epicsEventWaitStatus as a macro for epicsEventStatus
  - Renamed epicsEventWaitOk to epicsEventOk
  - Renamed epicsEventWaitError to epicsEventError
  - Defined epicsEventWaitOK and epicsEventWaitError as macros
  - Added epicsEventTrigger(id) which triggers an event and returns OK
    or an error status if the underlying OS primitives report an error
  - Added epicsEventMustTrigger(id) which halts on error
  - Defined epicsEventSignal(id) as a macro for
    epicsEventMustTrigger(id)
  - Added a new C++ method epicsEvent::trigger() which throws an
    epicsEvent::invalidSemaphore in the event of an error
  - epicsEvent::signal() makes an inline call to epicsEvent::trigger()
  - epicsEventWait() and epicsEventWaitWithTimeout() now return an error
    status if the underlying OS primitives report an error
  - All the epicsEventMust...() routines are now implemented in the
    common libCom/osi/epicsEvent.cpp source file, and call cantProceed()
    instead of mis-using assert()
  - Implemented epicsEventShow() on Posix
  - Win32: Removed all epicsShareAPI decorations

### Enabled histogram record type

The histogram record was not included in the base.dbd file in any 3.14
release, but has now been added along with its associated soft device
support. The build system now generates the list of all the record.dbd
files in base automatically in src/std/rec/Makefile.

### Reorganization of src/

Reorganization of subdirectories of src/ to better represent the
relation between different parts as described in the following table.

This change also allows the number of libraries built to be reduced to:
libCap5.so, libca.so, libdbCore.so, libdbStaticHost.so, libCom.so,
libcas.so, libdbRecStd.so, and libgdd.so

| Component          | Dependency        | Library name | Description                                           |
| ------------------ | ----------------- | ------------ | ----------------------------------------------------- |
| src/tools          |                   |              | Build system scripts                                  |
| src/libCom         | src/tools         | Com          | Utility routines and OS-independant API               |
| src/template       | src/tools         |              | User application templates (e.g. makeBaseApp)         |
| src/ca/client      | src/libCom        | ca           | Channel Access client                                 |
| src/ca/legacy/gdd  | src/ca/client     | gdd          | Generic data layer for PCAS                           |
| src/ca/legacy/pcas | src/ca/legacy/gdd | cas          | Portable Channel Access Server                        |
| src/ioc            | src/ca            | dbCore       | Core database processing functions                    |
| src/std            | src/ioc           | dbRecStd     | Standard records, soft device support and the softIoc |

In order to better reflect these relations the following directories and
files were moved as described:

#### Relocations

Category | Previous | New
:--- | :--- | :---
libCom | srcRTEMS | src/libCom/RTEMS
| | src/toolsComm/flex | src/libCom/flex |
| | src/toolsComm/antelope | src/libCom/yacc
| | src/dbStatic/alarm.h | src/libCom/misc
| | .../alarmString.h | src/libCom/misc
IOC Core Components | src/bpt | src/ioc/bpt
| | src/db | src/ioc/db
| | src/dbStatic | src/ioc/dbStatic
| | src/dbtools | src/ioc/dbtemplate
| | src/misc | src/ioc/misc
| | src/registry | src/ioc/registry
| | src/rsrv | src/ioc/rsrv [1](#rsrv)
| Standard Record Definitions | src/dev/softDev | src/std/dev |
| | src/rec | src/std/rec
| | src/softIoc | src/std/softIoc
Channel Access | src/ca | src/ca/client
| | src/catools | src/ca/client/tools
| | src/cap5 | src/ca/client/perl
| | src/gdd | src/ca/legacy/gdd
| | src/cas | src/ca/legacy/pcas
| | src/excas | src/ca/legacy/pcas/ex
User Templates | src/makeBaseApp | src/template/base
| | src/makeBaseExt | src/template/ext
Dispersed | src/util [2](#util) | src/ca/client
| | | src/ca/client/test
| | | src/libCom/log
| | src/as [3](#as) | src/libCom/as
| | | src/ioc/as

<span id="rsrv">1</span> RSRV is built as part of dbCore due to its
tight (bidirectional) coupling with the other database code.

<span id="util">2</span> The contents for src/util/ moved to three
locations. The caRepeater init script was moved to src/ca/client/.
ca\_test is now in src/ca/client/test/. The iocLogServer was moved into
the same directory (src/libCom/log) as the log client code.

<span id="as">3</span> The Access Security code has been divided, with
the parts not related to the database (lexer/parser and trap
registration) becoming part of libCom. The remaining components are
included in the dbCore library

### Moved src/RTEMS/base directory

These files are now found under src/RTEMS.

### Removed 3.13 compatibility

Removed the 3.13 &lt;top>/config directory and build compatibility rules
and variables, and various conversion documents.
